identification of 6′-β-fluoro-homoaristeromycin as a potent inhibitor of chikungunya virus replication. © 2019 Elsevier Masson SASWe have reported on aristeromycin (1) and 6′-fluorinated-aristeromycin analogues (2), which are active against RNA viruses such as Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV), severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV), Zika virus (ZIKV), and Chikungunya virus (CHIKV). However, these exhibit substantial cytotoxicity. As this cytotoxicity may be attributed to 5′-phosphorylation, we designed and synthesized one-carbon homologated 6′-fluorinated-aristeromycin analogues. This modification prevents 5′-phosphorlyation by cellular kinases, whereas the inhibitory activity towards S-adenosyl-L-homocysteine (SAH) hydrolase will be retained. The enantiomerically pure 6′-fluorinated-5′-homoaristeromycin analogues 3a-e were synthesized via the electrophilic fluorination of the silyl enol ether with Selectfluor, using a base-build up approach as the key steps. All synthesized compounds exhibited potent inhibitory activity towards SAH hydrolase, among which 6′-β-fluoroadenosine analogue 3a was the most potent (IC50 = 0.36 μM). Among the compounds tested, 6′-β-fluoro-homoaristeromycin 3a showed potent antiviral activity (EC50 = 0.12 μM) against the CHIKV, without noticeable cytotoxicity up to 250 μM. Only 3a displayed anti-CHIKV activity, whereas both3a and 3b inhibited SAH hydrolase with similar IC50 values (0.36 and 0.37 μM, respectively), which suggested that 3a's antiviral activity did not merely depend on the inhibition of SAH hydrolase. This is further supported by the fact that the antiviral effect was specific for CHIKV and some other alphaviruses and none of the homologated analogues inhibited other RNA viruses, such as SARS-CoV, MERS-CoV, and ZIKV. The potent inhibition and high selectivity index make 6′-β-fluoro-homoaristeromycin (3a) a promising new template for the development of antivirals against CHIKV, a serious re-emerging pathogen that has infected millions of people over the past 15 years.