pharmacy administration and pharmaceutical care practice in a module hospital during the covid-19 epidemic. © 2020 American Pharmacists Association®Objectives: To describe the pharmacy administration and pharmaceutical care in a module hospital during the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) epidemic and provide reference for domestic and foreign pharmacists participating in the epidemic prevention and control. Setting: The study was performed in a Jianghan module hospital constructed at the Wuhan Convention and Exhibition Center in Wuhan, China. This is 1 of the first 3 module hospitals. Practice description: One thousand eight hundred forty-eight patients were admitted to the Jianghan module hospital, and 1327 cases (71.81% of the total number) were cured and discharged. Pharmacists have successfully completed the tasks of purchase, storage, and free distribution of drugs worth ¥1.03 million (approximately $146,000), reviewed about 20,000 electronic orders, provided one-on-one online medication consultation for 484 patients, and held 5 lectures on rational drug use knowledge, which could help reduce irrational drug use and minimize the risk involved. Practice innovation: The new COVID-19 “module” pharmaceutical care model is equipped with new features such as pharmacy emergency command group, organizational structure for pharmacy administration, electronic control of drug prescription, and “zero contact” pharmaceutical care relying on the new media platform “WeChat.” This platform provides relevant pharmaceutical care for patients, such as ensuring drug supply, setting up critical care drug trolleys, designing specific drug packaging bags, creating a module radio station to broadcast rational drug use information to the patients, and other aspects. Evaluation: With the continuous improvement of the module hospital and the progress in in-depth knowledge about COVID-19, some aspects such as patient admission criteria and variety of drugs need to be adjusted depending on the actual situation. Results: The pharmacists provided pharmaceutical care for 1848 patients with mild COVID-19 disease. They not only ensured the timely supply of the drugs but also reduced the incidence of drug-induced risks through medication review and guidance, thereby improving patient compliance and helping the patients rebuild their confidence in overcoming the disease. Conclusion: The new COVID-19 module pharmaceutical care model has played an important role in overcoming the epidemic situation of COVID-19 in China and thus can be implemented on a broader scale.