chemistry and biology of sars-cov-2. © 2020 Elsevier Inc.SARS-CoV-2 (previously 2019-nCoV or Wuhan coronavirus) caused an unprecedented fast-spreading worldwide pandemic. Although currently with a rather low mortality rate, the virus spread rapidly over the world using the modern world's traffic highways. The coronavirus (CoV) family members were responsible for several deadly outbreaks and epidemics during the last decade. Not only governments but also the scientific community reacted promptly to the outbreak, and information is shared quickly. For example, the genetic fingerprint was shared, and the 3D structure of key proteins was rapidly solved, which can be used for the discovery of potential treatments. An overview is given on the current knowledge of the spread, disease course, and molecular biology of SARS-CoV-2. We discuss potential treatment developments in the context of recent outbreaks, drug repurposing, and development timelines.© 2020 Elsevier Inc.Challenges and opportunities: • The SARS-CoV-2 pandemic has changed our world in just half a year: a large number of people have died from the virus-induced pneumonia COVID-19, and the global economy is at an unprecedented low with unknown near- and long-term consequences. • The coronavirus pandemic needs a two-pronged approach: a short-term solution to find a drug to treat the massive number of seriously ill patients, and long-term development of preventive and curative drugs for future corona outbreaks. • De novo drug discovery takes years to move from idea and/or pre-clinic to market release and is not a short-term solution for the current SARS-CoV-2 pandemic. Drug repurposing is perhaps the only short-term solution, and vaccination is a middle-term solution.© 2020 Elsevier Inc.This perspective covers the chemistry and biology of SARS-CoV-2 and potential pharmacological interventions of the coronavirus pandemic, including discussion of the different drug modalities such as vaccines, monoclonal antibodies, oligonucleotide-based therapies, peptides, interferon therapies, small-molecule drugs, or natural medicines (e.g., traditional Chinese medicine [TCM]). The most likely scenario for a short-term solution of the COVID-19 crisis is the multiple drug repurposing approaches currently being pursued.