the role of chest computed tomography in the management of covid-19: a review of results and recommendations. © 2020 by the Society for Experimental Biology and Medicine.The rapid and dramatic increase in confirmed cases of COVID-19 has led to a global pandemic. Early detection and containment are currently the most effective methods for controlling the outbreak. A positive diagnosis is determined by laboratory real-time reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (rRT-PCR) testing, but the use of chest computed tomography (CT) has also been indicated as an important tool for detection and management of the disease. Numerous studies reviewed in this paper largely concur in their findings that the early hallmarks of COVID-19 infection are ground-glass opacities (GGOs), often with a bilateral and peripheral lung distribution. In addition, most studies demonstrated similar CT findings related to the progression of the disease, starting with GGOs in early disease, followed by the development of crazy paving in middle stages and finally increasing consolidation in the later stages of the disease. Studies have reported a low rate of misdiagnosis by chest CT, as well as a high rate of misdiagnosis by the rRT-PCR tests. Specifically, chest CT provides more accurate results in the early stages of COVID-19, when it is critical to begin treatment as well as isolate the patient to avoid the spread of the virus. While rRT-PCR will probably remain the definitive final test for COVID-19, until it is more readily available and can consistently provide higher sensitivity, the use of chest CT for early stage detection has proven valuable in avoiding misdiagnosis as well as monitoring the progression of the disease. With the understanding of the role of chest CT, researchers are beginning to apply deep learning and other algorithms to differentiate between COVID-19 and non-COVID-19 CT scans, determine the severity of the disease to guide the course of treatment, and investigate numerous additional COVID-19 applications. Impact statement: The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic has been worldwide, and clinicians and researchers around the world have been working to develop effective and efficient methods for early detection as well as monitoring of the disease progression. This minireview compiles the various agency and expert recommendations, along with results from studies published in numerous countries, in an effort to facilitate the research in imaging technology development to benefit the detection and monitoring of COVID-19. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first review paper on the topic, and it provides a brief, yet comprehensive analysis.