Drug of abuse DOA consumption is a growing problem worldwide particularly with increasing numbers of new psychoactive substances NPS entering the drug market. Generally little information on their adverse effects and toxicity are available. The direct detection and identification of NPS is an analytical challenge due to their ephemerality on the drug scene. An approach that does not directly focus on the structural detection of an analyte or its metabolites would be beneficial for this complex analytical scenario and the development of alternative screening methods could help to provide fast response on suspected NPS consumption. A metabolomics approach might represent such an alternative strategy for the identification of biomarkers for different questions in DOA testing. Metabolomics is the monitoring of changes in small endogenous molecules <1000 Da in response to a certain stimulus e.g. DOA consumption. For this review a literature search targeting "metabolomics" and different DOAs or NPS was conducted. Thereby different applications of metabolomic strategies in biomarker research for DOA identification were identified: a as an additional tool for metabolism studies bearing the major advantage that particularly a priori unknown or unexpected metabolites can be identified; and b for identification of endogenous biomarker or metabolite patterns e.g. for synthetic cannabinoids or also to indirectly detect urine manipulation attempts by chemical adulteration or replacement with artificial urine samples. The majority of the currently available literature in that field however deals with metabolomic studies for DOAs to better assess their acute or chronic effects or to find biomarkers for drug addiction and tolerance. Certain changes in endogenous compounds are detected for all studied DOAs but often similar compounds/pathways are influenced. When evaluating these studies with regard to possible biomarkers for drug consumption the observed changes appear albeit statistically significant too small to reliably work as biomarker for drug consumption. Further different drugs were shown to affect the same pathways. In conclusion metabolomic approaches possess potential for detection of biomarkers indicating drug consumption. More studies including more sensitive targeted analyses multi-variant statistical models or deep-learning approaches are needed to fully explore the potential of omics science in DOA testing. Metabolomic Strategies in Biomarker Research-New Approach for Indirect Identification of Drug Consumption and Sample Manipulation in Clinical and Forensic Toxicology?