"State-of-the-art machine learning ML artificial intelligence methods are increasingly leveraged in clinical predictive modeling to provide clinical decision support systems to physicians. Modern ML approaches such as artificial neural networks ANNs and tree boosting often perform better than more traditional methods like logistic regression. On the other hand these modern methods yield a limited understanding of the resulting predictions. However in the medical domain understanding of applied models is essential in particular when informing clinical decision support. Thus in recent years interpretability methods for modern ML methods have emerged to potentially allow explainable predictions paired with high performance. To our knowledge we present in this work the first explainability comparison of two modern ML methods tree boosting and multilayer perceptrons MLPs to traditional logistic regression methods using a stroke outcome prediction paradigm. Here we used clinical features to predict a dichotomized 90 days post-stroke modified Rankin Scale mRS score. For interpretability we evaluated clinical features importance with regard to predictions using deep Taylor decomposition for MLP Shapley values for tree boosting and model coefficients for logistic regression. With regard to performance as measured by Area under the Curve AUC values on the test dataset all models performed comparably: Logistic regression AUCs were 0.83 0.83 0.81 for three different regularization schemes; tree boosting AUC was 0.81; MLP AUC was 0.83. Importantly the interpretability analysis demonstrated consistent results across models by rating age and stroke severity consecutively amongst the most important predictive features. For less important features some differences were observed between the methods. Our analysis suggests that modern machine learning methods can provide explainability which is compatible with domain knowledge interpretation and traditional method rankings. Future work should focus on replication of these findings in other datasets and further testing of different explainability methods." Opening the black box of artificial intelligence for clinical decision support: A study predicting stroke outcome.