In recent years in medical educational process new innovative technologies are widely used with computer simulation providing the reality of medical intervations and procedures. Practice-training teaching with using of simulation allows to improve the efficiency of learning material at the expense of creating imaginary professional activity and leading barring material to practical activity. The arm of the investigation is evaluation of the students training efficiency at the Medical Institute on the topic "General Anesthesia with using a modern simulation "SimMan 3 G". The material of the investigation is the results carried out on the basis of the Centre of Practical skills and medical virtual educational technologies Simulation Centre at the Medical Institute of NEFU by M.K. Ammosov. The Object of the investigation was made up by 55 students of the third 3 course of the Faculty of General Medicine of the Medical Institute of NEFU. The investigation was hold during practical trainings April-May 2014 of the General Surgery Department on the topic "General Anesthesia". A simulation practical course "General Anesthesia" consisted of 12 academic hours. Practical training was carried out using instruments equipments and facilities to install anesthesia on the SimMan 3G with shooting the process and further discussions of the results. The methods of the investigations were the appreciation of students background knowledge before and after practical training by 5 points scale and the analysis of the results. The results of the investigation showed that before the practical course only 23 students 41.8% had dot positive marks: "Good"--7 students 12.7% and "Satisfactory"--16 29.1% students. The rest 22 58.2% students had bad results. The practical trainings using real instruments equipments and facilities with imitation of installation of preparations for introductory anesthesia main analgesics and muscle relaxants showed a patients reaction on the virtual trainer SimMan 3 G. Students were divided into anesthetic team co-assisting of an anesthesiologist an assistant and nurses anesthetist who conducted general anesthesia the mask anesthesia intravenous anesthesia endotracheal anesthesia. After finishing the practical course 16 students 29.1% got 5 marks Excellent 35 students 63.6%--4 Good and 4 students 7.3%--3 mark Satisfactory. SIMULATION OF GENERAL ANESTHESIA ON THE "SIMMAN 3G" AND ITS EFFICIENCY.