Biodiversity loss and sparse observational data mean that critical conservation decisions may be based on little to no information. Emerging technologies such as airborne thermal imaging and virtual reality may facilitate species monitoring and improve predictions of species distribution. Here we combined these two technologies to predict the distribution of koalas specialized arboreal foliovores facing population declines in many parts of eastern Australia. For a study area in southeast Australia we complemented ground-survey records with presence and absence observations from thermal-imagery obtained using Remotely-Piloted Aircraft Systems. These field observations were further complemented with information elicited from koala experts who were immersed in 360-degree images of the study area. The experts were asked to state the probability of habitat suitability and koala presence at the sites they viewed and to assign each probability a confidence rating. We fit logistic regression models to the ground survey data and the ground plus thermal-imagery survey data and a Beta regression model to the expert elicitation data. We then combined parameter estimates from the expert-elicitation model with those from each of the survey models to predict koala presence and absence in the study area. The model that combined the ground thermal-imagery and expert-elicitation data substantially reduced the uncertainty around parameter estimates and increased the accuracy of classifications koala presence vs absence relative to the model based on ground-survey data alone. Our findings suggest that data elicited from experts using virtual reality technology can be combined with data from other emerging technologies such as airborne thermal-imagery using traditional statistical models to increase the information available for species distribution modelling and the conservation of vulnerable and protected species. Using virtual reality and thermal imagery to improve statistical modelling of vulnerable and protected species.