At present little is known about brain functional connectivity and its small-world topologic properties in first-episode schizophrenia SZ patients during cool executive function task. In this paper the Trail Making Test-B TMT-B task was used to evaluate the cool executive function of first-episode SZ patients and electroencephalography EEG data were recorded from 14 first-episode SZ patients and 14 healthy controls during this cool executive function task. Brain functional connectivity between all pairs of EEG channels was constructed based on mutual information MI analysis. The constructed brain functional networks were filtered by three thresholding schemes: absolute threshold mean degree and a novel data-driven scheme based on orthogonal minimal spanning trees OMST and graph theory was then used to study the topographical characteristics of the filtered brain graphs. Results indicated that the graph theoretical measures of the theta band showed obvious difference between SZ patients and healthy controls. In the theta band the characteristic path length was significantly longer and the cluster coefficient was significantly smaller in the SZ patients for a wide range of absolute threshold T. However the cluster coefficient showed no significant changes and the characteristic path length was still significantly longer in SZ patients when calculated as a function of mean degree K. Interestingly we also found that only the characteristic path length was significantly longer in SZ patients compared with healthy controls after using the OMST scheme. Pearson correlation analysis showed that the characteristic path length was positively correlated with executive time of TMT-B for the combined SZ patients and healthy controls r = 0.507 P = 0.006 but not for SZ patients alone r = 0.072 P = 0.612. The above results suggested a less optimal organization of the brain network and could be useful for understanding the pathophysiologic mechanisms underlying cool executive dysfunction in first-episode SZ patients. Altered Small-World Networks in First-Episode Schizophrenia Patients during Cool Executive Function Task.