"OBJECTIVE Deep brain stimulation DBS is a reversible nonlesion-based treatment for patients with intractable obsessive-compulsive disorder OCD. The first studies on DBS for OCD stimulating the ventral capsule/ventral striatum VC/VS yielded encouraging results for this neuroanatomical sites therapeutic efficacy. This investigation was conducted to better understand which regions of the cortico-striatal-thalamic-cortical network were acutely affected by VC/VS DBS for OCD. Furthermore the objective was to identify which brain regions demonstrated changes in perfusion as stimulation was applied across a dorsoventral lead axis that corresponded to different anatomical locations in the VC/VS. METHODS Six patients receiving VC/VS DBS for OCD underwent oxygen-15 positron emission tomography 15O-PET scanning. Monopolar DBS was delivered at each of the 4 different electrodes on the stimulating lead in the VC/VS. The data were analyzed using SPM5. Paired t-tests were run in SPSS to identify significant changes in regional cerebral blood flow rCBF between stimulation conditions. Pearsons r correlations were run between these significant changes in rCBF and changes in OCD and depressive symptom severity. RESULTS Perfusion in the dorsal anterior cingulate cortex dACC significantly increased when monopolar DBS was turned on at the most ventral DBS contact and this increase in dACC activity was correlated with reductions in depressive symptom severity r5 = -0.994 p = 0.001. Perfusion in the thalamus striatum and globus pallidus significantly increased when DBS was turned on at the most dorsal contact. CONCLUSIONS DBS of the VC/VS appears to modulate activity in the regions implicated in the pathophysiology of OCD. Different regions in the cortico-striatal-thalamic-cortical circuit showed increased perfusion based on whether the stimulation was more ventral or dorsal along the lead axis in the VC/VS. Evidence was found that DBS at the most ventral site was associated with clinical changes in depressive symptom severity but not OCD symptom severity." Acute deep brain stimulation changes in regional cerebral blood flow in obsessive-compulsive disorder.