"The event-related potential ERP is the brain response measured in electroencephalography EEG which reflects the process of human cognitive activity. ERP has been introduced into brain computer interfaces BCIs to communicate the computer with the subjects intention. Due to the low signal-to-noise ratio of EEG most ERP studies are based on grand-averaging over many trials. Recently single-trial ERP detection attracts more attention which enables real time processing tasks as rapid face identification. All the targets needed to be retrieved may appear only once and there is no knowledge of target label for averaging. More interestingly how the features contribute temporally and spatially to single-trial ERP detection has not been fully investigated. In this paper we propose to implement a local-learning-based LLB feature extraction method to investigate the importance of spatial-temporal components of ERP in a task of rapid face identification using single-trial detection. Comparing to previous methods LLB method preserves the nonlinear structure of EEG signal distribution and analyze the importance of original spatial-temporal components via optimization in feature space. As a data-driven methods the weighting of the spatial-temporal component does not depend on the ERP detection method. The importance weights are optimized by making the targets more different from non-targets in feature space and regularization penalty is introduced in optimization for sparse weights. This spatial-temporal feature extraction method is evaluated on the EEG data of 15 participants in performing a face identification task using rapid serial visual presentation paradigm. Comparing with other methods the proposed spatial-temporal analysis method uses sparser only 10% of the total features and could achieve comparable performance 98% of single-trial ERP detection as the whole features across different detection methods. The interesting finding is that the N250 is the earliest temporal component that contributes to single-trial ERP detection in face identification. And the importance of N250 components is more laterally distributed toward the left hemisphere. We show that using only the left N250 component over-performs the right N250 in the face identification task using single-trial ERP detection. The finding is also important in building a fast and efficient fewer electrodes BCI system for rapid face identification." Spatial-Temporal Feature Analysis on Single-Trial Event Related Potential for Rapid Face Identification.