Background: Stroke is the leading cause of serious long-term disability in the United States. Barriers to rehabilitation include cost transportation lack of trained personnel and equipment. Telerehabilitation TR has emerged as a promising modality to reduce costs improve accessibility and retain patient independence. TR allows providers to remotely administer therapy potentially increasing access to underserved regions. Objectives: To describe types of stroke rehabilitation therapy delivered through TR and to evaluate whether TR is as effective as traditional in-person outpatient therapy in improving satisfaction and poststroke residual deficits such as motor function speech and disability. Methods: A literature search of the term "telerehabilitation and stroke" was conducted across three databases. Full-text articles with results pertaining to TR interventions were reviewed. Articles were scored for methodological quality using the PEDro scale. Results: Thirty-four articles with 1025 patients were included. Types of TR included speech therapy virtual reality VR robotic community-based goal setting and motor training exercises. Frequently measured outcomes included motor function speech disability and satisfaction. All 34 studies reported improvement from baseline after TR therapy. PEDro scores ranged from 2 to 8 with a mean of 4.59\u2009\u20091.94 on a scale of 0-10. Studies with control interventions randomized allocation and blinded assessment had significantly higher PEDro scores. All 15 studies that compared TR with traditional therapy showed equivalent or better functional outcomes. Home-based robotic therapy and VR were less costly than in-person therapy. Patient satisfaction with TR and in-person clinical therapy was similar. Conclusions: TR is less costly and equally as effective as clinic-based rehabilitation at improving functional outcomes in stroke patients. TR produces similar patient satisfaction. TR can be combined with other therapies including VR speech and robotic assistance or used as an adjuvant to direct in-person care. Impact of Telerehabilitation for Stroke-Related Deficits.