Psychiatric disorders including schizophrenia SCZ bipolar disorder BD and major depressive disorder MDD share clinical and neurobiological features. Because previous investigations of functional dysconnectivity have mainly focused on single disorders the transdiagnostic alterations in the functional connectome architecture of the brain remain poorly understood. We collected resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging data from 512 participants including 121 with SCZ 100 with BD 108 with MDD and 183 healthy controls. Individual functional brain connectomes were constructed in a voxelwise manner and the modular architectures were examined at different scales including 1 global modularity 2 module-specific segregation and intra- and intermodular connections and 3 nodal participation coefficients. The correlation of these modular measures with clinical scores was also examined. We reliably identify common alterations in modular organization in patients compared to controls including 1 lower global modularity; 2 lower modular segregation in the frontoparietal subcortical visual and sensorimotor modules driven by more intermodular connections; and 3 higher participation coefficients in several network connectors the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and angular gyrus and the thalamus. Furthermore the alterations in the SCZ group are more widespread than those of the BD and MDD groups and involve more intermodular connections lower modular segregation and higher connector integrity. These alterations in modular organization significantly correlate with clinical scores in patients. This study demonstrates common hyper-integrated modular architectures of functional brain networks among patients with SCZ BD and MDD. These findings reveal a transdiagnostic mechanism of network dysfunction across psychiatric disorders from a connectomic perspective. Transdiagnostic Dysfunctions in Brain Modules Across Patients with Schizophrenia Bipolar Disorder and Major Depressive Disorder: A Connectome-Based Study.