In presence of inter-fractional anatomical changes clinical benefits are anticipated from image-guided adaptive radiotherapy. Nowadays cone-beam CT CBCT imaging is mostly utilized during pre-treatment imaging for position verification. Due to various artifacts image quality is typically not sufficient for photon or proton dose calculation thus demanding accurate CBCT correction as potentially provided by deep learning techniques. This work aimed at investigating the feasibility of utilizing a cycle-consistent generative adversarial network cycleGAN for prostate CBCT correction using unpaired training. Thirty-three patients were included. The network was trained to translate uncorrected original CBCT images CBCTorg into planning CT equivalent images CBCTcycleGAN. HU accuracy was determined by comparison to a previously validated CBCT correction technique CBCTcor. Dosimetric accuracy was inferred for volumetric-modulated arc photon therapy VMAT and opposing single-field uniform dose OSFUD proton plans optimized on CBCTcor and recalculated on CBCTcycleGAN. Single-sided SFUD proton plans were utilized to assess proton range accuracy. The mean HU error of CBCTcycleGAN with respect to CBCTcor decreased from 24 HU for CBCTorg to\u2009\u2009-6 HU. Dose calculation accuracy was high for VMAT with average pass-rates of 100%/89% for a 2%/1% dose difference criterion. For proton OSFUD plans the average pass-rate for a 2% dose difference criterion was 80%. Using a 2% 2\u2009mm gamma criterion the pass-rate was 96%. 93% of all analyzed SFUD profiles had a range agreement better than 3\u2009mm. CBCT correction time was reduced from 6-10\u2009min for CBCTcor to 10 s for CBCTcycleGAN. Our study demonstrated the feasibility of utilizing a cycleGAN for CBCT correction achieving high dose calculation accuracy for VMAT. For proton therapy further improvements may be required. Due to unpaired training the approach does not rely on anatomically consistent training data or potentially inaccurate deformable image registration. The substantial speed-up for CBCT correction renders the method particularly interesting for adaptive radiotherapy. CBCT correction using a cycle-consistent generative adversarial network and unpaired training to enable photon and proton dose calculation.