QuickTime virtual reality QTVR is a software technology that creates on a normal computer screen the illusion of holding and turning a three-dimensional object. QTVR is a practical photo-realistic virtual reality technology that is easily implemented on any current personal computer or via the Internet with no special hardware requirements. Because of its ability to present dynamic photo-quality images we reasoned that QTVR can provide a more realistic presentation of anatomic structure than two-dimensional atlas pictures and facilitate study of specimens outside the dissection lab. We created QTVR objects using portions of the skull and incorporated them into an instructional program for first-year medical students. To obtain images the bones of the skull were mounted on a rotating table and a digital camera was positioned on a swinging arm so that the focal point remained coincident with the rotational center of the object as the camera was panned through a vertical arc. Digital images were captured at intervals of 10 degrees rotation of the object horizontal pan. The camera was then swung through an arc with additional horizontal pan sequences taken at 10 degrees intervals of vertical pan. The images were edited to place the object on a solid black background then assembled into a linear QuickTime movie. The linear movie was processed to yield a QTVR object movie that can be manipulated on vertical and horizontal axes using the mouse. QTVR movies were incorporated into an interactive environment that provided labeling links to text-based information and self-testing capabilities. This program Yorick-the VR Skull has been used in our first-year medical and graduate gross anatomy courses for the past two years. Results of student evaluation of the program indicate that this QTVR-based program is an effective learning tool that is well received by students. Using QuickTime virtual reality objects in computer-assisted instruction of gross anatomy: Yorick--the VR Skull.