"The basal ganglia BG is a collection of nuclei located deep beneath the cerebral cortex that is involved in learning and selection of rewarded actions. Here we analyzed BG mechanisms that enable these functions. We implemented a rate model of a BG-thalamo-cortical loop and simulated its performance in a standard action selection task. We have shown that potentiation of corticostriatal synapses enables learning of a rewarded option. However these synapses became redundant later as direct connections between prefrontal and premotor cortices PFC-PMC were potentiated by Hebbian learning. After we switched the reward to the previously unrewarded option reversal the BG was again responsible for switching to the new option. Due to the potentiated direct cortical connections the system was biased to the previously rewarded choice and establishing the new choice required a greater number of trials. Guided by physiological research we then modified our model to reproduce pathological states of mild Parkinsons and Huntingtons diseases. We found that in the Parkinsonian state PMC activity levels become extremely variable which is caused by oscillations arising in the BG-thalamo-cortical loop. The model reproduced severe impairment of learning and predicted that this is caused by these oscillations as well as a reduced reward prediction signal. In the Huntington state the potentiation of the PFC-PMC connections produced better learning but altered BG output disrupted expression of the rewarded choices. This resulted in random switching between rewarded and unrewarded choices resembling an exploratory phase that never ended. Along with other computational studies our results further reconcile the apparent contradiction between the critical involvement of the BG in execution of previously learned actions and yet no impairment of these actions after BG output is ablated by lesions or deep brain stimulation. We predict that the cortico-BG-thalamo-cortical loop conforms to previously learned choice in healthy conditions but impedes those choices in disease states." Basal ganglia role in learning rewarded actions and executing previously learned choices: Healthy and diseased states.