New reconstruction techniques are generating connectomes of unprecedented size. These must be analyzed to generate human comprehensible results. The analyses being used fall into three general categories. The first is interactive tools used during reconstruction to help guide the effort look for possible errors identify potential cell classes and answer other preliminary questions. The second type of analysis is support for formal documents such as papers and theses. Scientific norms here require that the data be archived and accessible and the analysis reproducible. In contrast to some other "omic" fields such as genomics where a few specific analyses dominate usage connectomics is rapidly evolving and the analyses used are often specific to the connectome being analyzed. These analyses are typically performed in a variety of conventional programming language such as Matlab R Python or C++ and read the connectomic data either from a file or through database queries neither of which are standardized. In the short term we see no alternative to the use of specific analyses so the best that can be done is to publish the analysis code and the interface by which it reads connectomic data. A similar situation exists for archiving connectome data. Each group independently makes their data available but there is no standardized format and long-term accessibility is neither enforced nor funded. In the long term as connectomics becomes more common a natural evolution would be a central facility for storing and querying connectomic data playing a role similar to the National Center for Biotechnology Information for genomes. The final form of analysis is the import of connectome data into downstream tools such as neural simulation or machine learning. In this process there are two main problems that need to be addressed. First the reconstructed circuits contain huge amounts of detail which must be intelligently reduced to a form the downstream tools can use. Second much of the data needed for these downstream operations must be obtained by other methods such as genetic or optical and must be merged with the extracted connectome. Analysis Tools for Large Connectomes.