Contextual fear conditioning takes place if the occurrence of threat cannot be predicted by specific cues. As a consequence the context becomes the best predictor of the threat and later induces anxiety sustained fear response. Previous studies suggest that both the amygdala and the hippocampus are crucial for contextual fear conditioning. First we wanted to further elucidate the neuronal correlates of long-lasting contextual threat within a highly ecologically setting created in virtual reality VR. Second we wanted to distinguish between initial and sustained components of the anxiety response to a threatening situation. Twenty-four participants were guided through two virtual offices for 30s each. They received unpredictable electric stimuli unconditioned stimulus US in one office anxiety context CXT+ but never in the second office safety context CXT-. Successful contextual fear conditioning was indexed by higher anxiety and enhanced US-expectancy ratings for CXT+ versus CXT-. Initial neural activity was assessed by modeling the onsets of both contexts and sustained neural activity by considering the entire context duration contrasts: CXT+\xa0>\xa0CXT-. Amygdala and hippocampus revealed sustained activity. Initial and sustained activities were found in the middle temporal gyrus and primary motor cortex M1. Additional initial activity was obvious in orbitofrontal OFC dorsomedial dmPFC and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex dlPFC. These results suggest that entering a threatening context initially induces conditioned fear reactions M1 recall of contingency awareness dlPFC and explicit threat appraisal dmPFC OFC. While remaining in the threatening context might involve anxiety-like conditioned responses amygdala M1 and the generation of a spatial map to predict where and when a threatening event may occur hippocampus. We conclude that in humans initial versus\xa0sustained anxiety responses triggered by a threat associated context are associated with distinguishable brain activation patterns involving a fear network and a "contingency-cognitive" network respectively. Initial and sustained brain responses to contextual conditioned anxiety in humans.