"Although there is a vast clinical literature on phantom limbs there have been no experimental studies on the effects of visual input on phantom sensations. We introduce an inexpensive new device--a virtual reality box--to resurrect the phantom visually to study inter-sensory effects. A mirror is placed vertically on the table so that the mirror reflection of the patients intact had is superimposed on the felt position of the phantom. We used this procedure on ten patients and found the following results. 1. In six patients when the normal hand was moved so that the phantom was perceived to move in the mirror it was also felt to move; i.e. kinesthetic sensations emerged in the phantom. In D.S. this effect occurred even though he had never experienced any movements in the phantom for ten years before we tested him. He found the return of sensations very enjoyable. 2. Repeated practice led to a permanent disappearance of the phantom arm in patient D.S. and the hand became telescoped into the stump near the shoulder. 3. Using an optical trick impossible postures--e.g. extreme hyperextension of the fingers--could be induced visually in the phantom. In one case this was felt as a transient painful tug in the phantom. 4. Five patients experienced involuntary painful clenching spasms in the phantom hand and in four of them the spasms were relieved when the mirror was used to facilitate opening of the phantom hand; opening was not possible without the mirror. 5. In three patients touching the normal hand evoked precisely localized touch sensations in the phantom. Interestingly the referral was especially pronounced when the patients actually saw their phantom being touched in the mirror. Indeed in a fourth patient R.L. the referral occurred only if he saw his phantom being touched: a curious form of synaesthesia. These experiments lend themselves readily to imaging studies using PET and fMRI. Taken collectively they suggest that there is a considerable amount of latent plasticity even in the adult human brain. For example precisely organized new pathways bridging the two cerebral hemispheres can emerge in less than three weeks. Furthermore there must be a great deal of back and forth interaction between vision and touch so that the strictly modular hierarchical model of the brain that is currently in vogue needs to be replaced with a more dynamic interactive model in which re-entrant signalling plays the main role." Synaesthesia in phantom limbs induced with mirrors.