Today the anthropomorphism of the tools and the development of neural interfaces require reconsidering the concept of human-tools interaction in the framework of human augmentation. This review analyses the plastic process that the brain undergoes when it comes into contact with augmenting artificial sensors and effectors and on the other hand the changes that the use of external augmenting devices produces in the brain. Hitherto few studies investigated the neural correlates of augmentation but clues on it can be borrowed from logically-related paradigms: sensorimotor training cognitive enhancement cross-modal plasticity sensorimotor functional substitution use and embodiment of tools. Augmentation modifies function and structure of a number of areas i.e. primary sensory cortices shape their receptive fields to become sensitive to novel inputs. Motor areas adapt the neuroprosthesis representation firing-rate to refine kinematics. As for normal motor outputs the learning process recruits motor and premotor cortices and the acquisition of proficiency decreases attentional recruitment focuses the activity on sensorimotor areas and increases the basal ganglia drive on the cortex. Augmentation deeply relies on the frontoparietal network. In particular premotor cortex is involved in learning the control of an external effector and owns the tool motor representation while the intraparietal sulcus extracts its visual features. In these areas multisensory integration neurons enlarge their receptive fields to embody supernumerary limbs. For operating an anthropomorphic neuroprosthesis the mirror system is required to understand the meaning of the action the cerebellum for the formation of its internal model and the insula for its interoception. In conclusion anthropomorphic sensorized devices can provide the critical sensory afferences to evolve the exploitation of tools through their embodiment reshaping the body representation and the sense of the self. Augmentation-related brain plasticity.