Radiation pneumonitis RP is one of the major side effects of thoracic radiotherapy. The aim of this study is to build a dose distribution based prediction model and investigate the correlation of RP incidence and high-order features of dose distribution. A convolution 3D C3D neural network was used to construct the prediction model. The C3D network was pre-trained for action recognition. The dose distribution was used as input of the prediction model. With the C3D network the convolution operation was performed in 3D space. The guided gradient-weighted class activation map grad-CAM was utilized to locate the regions of dose distribution which were strongly correlated with grade2 and grade<2 RP cases respectively. The features learned by the convolution filters were generated with gradient ascend to understand the deep network. The performance of the C3D prediction model was evaluated by comparing with three multivariate logistic regression LR prediction models which used the dosimetric normal tissue complication probability NTCP or dosiomics factors as input respectively. All the prediction models were validated using 70 non-small cell lung cancer NSCLC patients treated with volumetric modulated arc therapy VMAT. The area under curve AUC of C3D prediction model was 0.842. While the AUC of the three LR models were 0.676 0.744 and 0.782 respectively. The guided grad-CAM indicated that the low-dose region of contralateral lung and high-dose region of ipsilateral lung were strongly correlated with the grade2 and grade<2 RP cases respectively. The features learned by shallow filters were simple and globally consistent and of monotonous color. The features of deeper filters displayed more complicated pattern which was hard or impossible to give strict mathematical definition. In conclusion we built a C3D model for thoracic radiotherapy toxicity prediction. The results demonstrate its performance is superior over the classical LR models. In addition CNN also offers a new perspective to further understand RP incidence. Prediction of Radiation Pneumonitis With Dose Distribution: A Convolutional Neural Network CNN Based Model.