"The combination of big data and deep learning is a world-shattering technology that can make a great impact on any industry if used in a proper way. With the availability of large volume of health care datasets and progressions in deep learning techniques systems are now well equipped in diagnosing many health problems. Utilizing the intensity of substantial historical information in electronic health record EHR we built up a conventional predictive temporal model utilizing recurrent neural systems RNN like LSTM and connected to longitudinal time stepped EHR. Experience records were contribution to RNN to anticipate the analysis and prescription classes for a resulting visit during heart disappointment e.g. diagnosis codes drug codes or method codes. In this paper we also investigated whether use of deep learning to model temporal relations among events in electronic health records EHRs would enhance the model performance in predicting initial diagnosis of heart failure HF compared to some of the traditional methods that disregard temporality. By examining these time stamped EHRs we could recognize the associations between various diagnosis occasions and finally predicate when a patient is being analyzed for a disease. In any case it is hard to access the current EHR data straightforwardly since almost all data are sparse and not standardized. Along these lines we proposed a robust model for prediction of heart failure. The fundamental commitment of this paper is to predict the failure of heart by means of a neural network model based on patients electronic medicinal information. In order to demonstrate the diagnosis events and prediction of heart failure we used the medical concept vectors and the essential standards of a long short-term memory LSTM deep network model. The proposed LSTM model uses SiLU and tanh as activation function in the hidden layers and Softmax in output layer in the network. Bridgeout is used as a regularization technique for weight optimization throughout the network. Assessments subject to the real-time data exhibit the favorable effectiveness and feasibility of recommended model in the risk of heart failure prediction. The results showed improved accuracy in heart failure detection and the model performance is compared using the existing deep learning models. Enhanced prior detection could expose novel chances for deferring or anticipating movement to analysis of heart failure and diminish cost." LSTM Model for Prediction of Heart Failure in Big Data.