"Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder ADHD is one of the most common neurodevelopment disorders in childhood. Clinically the core symptoms of this disorder include inattention hyperactivity and impulsivity. Previous studies have documented that these behavior deficits in ADHD children are associated with not only regional brain abnormalities but also changes in functional and structural connectivity among regions. In the past several years our understanding of how ADHD affects the brains connectivity has been greatly advanced by mapping topological alterations of large-scale brain networks i.e. connectomes using noninvasive neurophysiological and neuroimaging techniques e.g. electroencephalograph functional MRI and diffusion MRI in combination with graph theoretical approaches. In this review we summarize the recent progresses of functional and structural brain connectomics in ADHD focusing on graphic analysis of large-scale brain systems. Convergent evidence suggests that children with ADHD had abnormal small-world properties in both functional and structural brain networks characterized by higher local clustering and lower global integrity suggesting a disorder-related shift of network topology toward regular configurations. Moreover ADHD children showed the redistribution of regional nodes and connectivity involving the default-mode attention and sensorimotor systems. Importantly these ADHD-associated alterations significantly correlated with behavior disturbances e.g. inattention and hyperactivity/impulsivity symptoms and exhibited differential patterns between clinical subtypes. Together these connectome-based studies highlight brain network dysfunction in ADHD thus opening up a new window into our understanding of the pathophysiological mechanisms of this disorder. These works might also have important implications on the development of imaging-based biomarkers for clinical diagnosis and treatment evaluation in ADHD." Imaging functional and structural brain connectomics in attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder.