The treatment and management of early stage estrogen receptor positive ER+ breast cancer is hindered by the difficulty in identifying patients who require adjuvant chemotherapy in contrast to those that will respond to hormonal therapy. To distinguish between the more and less aggressive breast tumors which is a fundamental criterion for the selection of an appropriate treatment plan Oncotype DX ODX and other gene expression tests are typically employed. While informative these gene expression tests are expensive tissue destructive and require specialized facilities. Bloom-Richardson BR grade the common scheme employed in breast cancer grading has been shown to be correlated with the Oncotype DX risk score. Unfortunately studies have also shown that the BR grade determined experiences notable inter-observer variability. One of the constituent categories in BR grading is the mitotic index. The goal of this study was to develop a deep learning DL classifier to identify mitotic figures from whole slides images of ER+ breast cancer the hypothesis being that the number of mitoses identified by the DL classifier would correlate with the corresponding Oncotype DX risk categories. The mitosis detector yielded an average F-score of 0.556 in the AMIDA mitosis dataset using a 6-fold validation setup. For a cohort of 174 whole slide images with early stage ER+ breast cancer for which the corresponding Oncotype DX score was available the distributions of the number of mitoses identified by the DL classifier was found to be significantly different between the high vs low Oncotype DX risk groups P\u2009<\u20090.01. Comparisons of other risk groups using both ODX score and histological grade were also found to present significantly different automated mitoses distributions. Additionally a support vector machine classifier trained to separate low/high Oncotype DX risk categories using the mitotic count determined by the DL classifier yielded a 83.19% classification accuracy. A deep learning based strategy for identifying and associating mitotic activity with gene expression derived risk categories in estrogen receptor positive breast cancers.