Previous studies investigated bodily self-consciousness BSC by experimentally exposing subjects to multisensory conflicts i.e. visuo-tactile audio-tactile visuo-cardiac in virtual reality VR that involve the participant\s torso in a paradigm known as the full-body illusion FBI. Using a modified FBI paradigm we found that synchrony of visuo-respiratory stimulation i.e. a flashing outline surrounding an avatar in VR; the flash intensity depending on breathing is also able to modulate BSC by increasing self-location and breathing agency toward the virtual body. Our aim was to investigate such visuo-respiratory effects and determine whether respiratory motor commands contributes to BSC using non-invasive mechanical ventilation i.e. machine-delivered breathing. Seventeen healthy participants took part in a visuo-respiratory FBI paradigm and performed the FBI during two breathing conditions: a "active breathing" i.e. participants actively initiate machine-delivered breaths and b "passive breathing" i.e. breaths\ timing was determined by the machine. Respiration rate tidal volume and their variability were recorded. In line with previous results participants experienced subjective changes in self-location breathing agency and self-identification toward the avatar\s body when presented with synchronous visuo-respiratory stimulation. Moreover drift in self-location was reduced and tidal volume variability were increased by asynchronous visuo-respiratory stimulations. Such effects were not modulated by breathing control manipulations. Our results extend previous FBI findings showing that visuo-respiratory stimulation affects BSC independently from breathing motor command initiation. Also variability of respiratory parameters was influenced by visuo-respiratory feedback and might reduce breathing discomfort. Further exploration of such findings might inform the development of respiratory therapeutic tools using VR in patients. Mechanisms of the breathing contribution to bodily self-consciousness in healthy humans: Lessons from machine-assisted breathing?