Copper neurotoxicity has been implicated in multiple neurological diseases. However there is a lack of deep understanding on copper neurotoxicity especially for low-dose copper exposure. In this study we investigated the effects of chronic low-dose copper treatment 0.13\u2009ppm copper chloride in drinking water on hippocampal mitochondrial and nuclear proteome in mice by 2-dimensional fluorescence difference gel electrophoresis coupled with MALDI-TOF-MS/MS. Behavioral tests revealed that low-dose copper caused spatial memory impairment DNA oxidative damage as well as loss of synaptic proteins. Proteomic analysis revealed modulation of 31 hippocampal mitochondrial proteins 15 increased and 16 decreased and 46 hippocampal nuclear proteins 18 increased and 28 decreased in copper-treated versus untreated mice. Bioinformatic analysis indicated that these differentially expressed proteins are mainly involved energy metabolism NDUV1 COX5B IDH3A and PGAM1 synapses complexin-2 synapsin-2 DNA damage PDIA3 apoptosis GRP75 and oxidative stress SODC PRDX3. Among these differentially expressed proteins synapsin-2 a synaptic-related protein was found to be significantly decreased as confirmed by Western-blot analysis. In addition we found that superoxide dismutase Cu-Zn SODC a copper ion target protein was identified to be decreased in copper-treated mice versus untreated mice. We also found that stathmin STMN1 a microtubule-destabilizing neuroprotein was significantly decreased in hippocampal nuclei of copper-treated mice versus untreated mice. Taken together we conclude that low-dose copper exposure causes spatial memory impairment and perturbs multiple biological/pathogenic processes by dysregulating the mitochondrial and nuclear proteome particularly the proteins related to respiratory chain synaptic vesicle fusion axonal/neurtic integrity and oxidative stress. The change of STMN1 and SODC may represent early novel biomarkers of copper neurotoxicity. Hippocampal Subcellular Organelle Proteomic Alteration of Copper-Treated Mice.