"Background: Functional imaging methods such as resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging reflect changes in neural connectivity and may help to assess the widespread consequences of disease-specific network changes in Parkinsons disease. In this study we used a relatively new graph analysis approach in functional imaging: eigenvector centrality mapping. This model-free method applied to all voxels in the brain identifies prominent regions in the brain network hierarchy and detects localized differences between patient populations. In other neurological disorders eigenvector centrality mapping has been linked to changes in functional connectivity in certain nodes of brain networks. Objectives: Examining changes in functional brain connectivity architecture on a whole brain and network level in patients with Parkinsons disease. Methods: Whole brain resting-state functional architecture was studied with a recently introduced graph analysis approach eigenvector centrality mapping. Functional connectivity was further investigated in relation to eight known resting-state networks. Cross-sectional analyses included group comparison of functional connectivity measures of Parkinsons disease patients n = 107 with control subjects n = 58 and correlations with clinical data including motor and cognitive impairment and a composite measure of predominantly non-dopaminergic symptoms. Results: Eigenvector centrality mapping revealed that frontoparietal regions were more prominent in the whole-brain network function in patients compared to control subjects while frontal and occipital brain areas were less prominent in patients. Using standard resting-state networks we found predominantly increased functional connectivity namely within sensorimotor system and visual networks in patients. Regional group differences in functional connectivity of both techniques between patients and control subjects partly overlapped for highly connected posterior brain regions in particular in the posterior cingulate cortex and precuneus. Clinico-functional imaging relations were not found. Conclusions: Changes on the level of functional brain connectivity architecture might provide a different perspective of pathological consequences of Parkinsons disease. The involvement of specific highly connected hub brain regions may influence whole brain functional network architecture in Parkinsons disease." "Altered Whole-Brain and Network-Based Functional Connectivity in Parkinsons Disease."