Autism spectrum disorder ASD is associated with persistent deficits in social communication and social interaction including impaired multisensory integration which might negatively impact cognitive and motor skill performance and hence negatively affect learning of tasks. Considering that tasks in virtual environment may provide an engaging tool as adjuncts to conventional therapies we set out to compare motor performance between young people with ASD and a typically developing TD control group that underwent coincident timing tasks based on Kinect no physical contact and on Keyboard with physical contact environments. Using a randomized repeated cross-over controlled trial design 50 young people with ASD and 50 with TD matched by age and sex were divided into subgroups of 25 people that performed the two first phases of the study acquisition and retention on the same device-real or virtual-and then switched to the other device to repeat acquisition and retention phases and finally switched on to a touch screen transfer phase. Results showed that practice in the virtual task was more difficult producing more errors but led to a better performance in the subsequent practice in the real task with more pronounced improvement in the ASD as compared to the TD group. It can be concluded that the ASD group managed to transfer the practice from a virtual to a real environment indicating that virtual methods may enhance learning of motor and cognitive skills. A need for further exploration of its effect across a number of tasks and activities is warranted. Autism Res 2020 13: 307-319.  2019 International Society for Autism Research Wiley Periodicals Inc. LAY SUMMARY: Individuals with autism spectrum disorder are known to have difficulties with learning motor tasks. Considering that performing motor tasks in virtual environment may be an engaging tool as adjuncts to conventional therapies we aimed to estimate performance in tasks regardless of physical touch. Results showed that participants had more difficulty using the non-touch task; however virtual training improved performance on the physical real task. This result indicates that virtual methods could be a promising therapeutic approach for the ASD population. Motor learning and transfer between real and virtual environments in young people with autism spectrum disorder: A prospective randomized cross over controlled trial.