"The application of virtual reality VR to the neurosurgical field has been increasing recently however the relation between the surgeon and the VR environment is rarely studied. We examined the trajectory of a surgical instrument during manipulation of a virtual object using a video-see-through microscope and a neurosurgical navigator CANS Navigator to find better surgeon-microscope interface. A resin cylindrical phantom was produced representing the surgical field which included two 3 dimensionally arranged small spheres and a virtual gate. The phantom was fixed and set under the microscope with a skull clamp mimicking conditions in an ordinary craniotomy. Firstly the binocular parallax perception under microscope was examined. Experienced and inexperienced neurosurgeons were asked to learn the position of the virtual gate for 3 minutes. Then after 5 minutes to point with the navigator probe suction tube under various conditions; under the naked eyes under the microscope under the navigator without observing the phantom and under the microscope with picture in picture PIP display of the navigational image. The positions of the suction tube were recorded at real time into the navigator for later analysis. Secondly the task performance in this VR environment was studied by analyzing the trajectory of the suction tube from one sphere to the other sphere passing the virtual gate under various conditions. A significant difference in pointing precision between experienced and inexperienced neurosurgeons was able to be observed only under microscope. This difference was mainly derived from overestimation of the depth of the virtual gate by the inexperienced neurosurgeons. Among the above conditions pointing under the microscope with PIP was able to be performed the most precisely and the most promptly. This study disclosed the presence of stereoscopic distortion in the microscope. The PIP display of the navigational image in the microscopic view remarkably improved the task performance which could be accounted for by the correction of the somewhat distorted binocular parallax perception under the neurosurgical microscope by the provision of another visual key." "Discrepancy between surgeons binocular parallax perception and manipulation in the neurosurgical operation."