Predicting drug-protein interactions DPIs for target proteins involved in dopamine pathways is a very important goal in medicinal chemistry. We can tackle this problem using Molecular Docking or Machine Learning ML models for one specific protein. Unfortunately these models fail to account for large and complex big data sets of preclinical assays reported in public databases. This includes multiple conditions of assays such as different experimental parameters biological assays target proteins cell lines organism of the target or organism of assay. On the other hand perturbation theory PT models allow us to predict the properties of a query compound or molecular system in experimental assays with multiple boundary conditions based on a previously known case of reference. In this work we report the first PTML PT + ML study of a large ChEMBL data set of preclinical assays of compounds targeting dopamine pathway proteins. The best PTML model found predicts 50000 cases with accuracy of 70-91% in training and external validation series. We also compared the linear PTML model with alternative PTML models trained with multiple nonlinear methods artificial neural network ANN Random Forest Deep Learning etc.. Some of the nonlinear methods outperform the linear model but at the cost of a notable increment of the complexity of the model. We illustrated the practical use of the new model with a proof-of-concept theoretical-experimental study. We reported for the first time the organic synthesis chemical characterization and pharmacological assay of a new series of l-prolyl-l-leucyl-glycinamide PLG peptidomimetic compounds. In addition we performed a molecular docking study for some of these compounds with the software Vina AutoDock. The work ends with a PTML model predictive study of the outcomes of the new compounds in a large number of assays. Therefore this study offers a new computational methodology for predicting the outcome for any compound in new assays. This PTML method focuses on the prediction with a simple linear model of multiple pharmacological parameters IC50 EC50 Ki etc. for compounds in assays involving different cell lines used organisms of the protein target or organism of assay for proteins in the dopamine pathway. Perturbation Theory/Machine Learning Model of ChEMBL Data for Dopamine Targets: Docking Synthesis and Assay of New l-Prolyl-l-leucyl-glycinamide Peptidomimetics.