Body condition score BCS is a common tool for indirectly estimating the mobilization of energy reserves in the fat and muscle of cattle that meets the requirements of animal welfare and precision livestock farming for the effective monitoring of individual animals. However previous studies on automatic BCS systems have used manual scoring for data collection and traditional image extraction methods have limited model performance accuracy. In addition the radio frequency identification device system commonly used in ranching has the disadvantages of misreadings and damage to bovine bodies. Therefore the aim of this research was to develop and validate an automatic system for identifying individuals and assessing BCS using a deep learning framework. This work developed a linear regression model of BCS using ultrasound backfat thickness to determine BCS for training sets and tested a system based on convolutional neural networks with 3 channels including depth gray and phase congruency to analyze the back images of 686 cows. After we performed an analysis of image model performance online verification was used to evaluate the accuracy and precision of the system. The results showed that the selected linear regression model had a high coefficient of determination value 0.976 and the correlation coefficient between manual BCS and ultrasonic BCS was 0.94. Although the overall accuracy of the BCS estimations was high 0.45 0.77 and 0.98 within 0 0.25 and 0.5 unit respectively the validation for actual BCS ranging from 3.25 to 3.5 was weak the F1 scores were only 0.6 and 0.57 respectively within the 0.25-unit range. Overall individual identification and BCS assessment performed well in the online measurement with accuracies of 0.937 and 0.409 respectively. A system for individual identification and BCS assessment was developed and a convolutional neural network using depth gray and phase congruency channels to interpret image features exhibited advantages for monitoring thin cows. Automatic monitoring system for individual dairy cows based on a deep learning framework that provides identification via body parts and estimation of body condition score.