Functional connectivity concerns the correlated activity between neuronal populations in spatially segregated regions of the brain which may be studied using functional magnetic resonance imaging fMRI. This coupled activity is conveniently expressed using covariance but this measure fails to distinguish between direct and indirect effects. A popular alternative that addresses this issue is partial correlation which regresses out the signal of potentially confounding variables resulting in a measure that reveals only direct connections. Importantly provided the data are normally distributed if two variables are conditionally independent given all other variables their respective partial correlation is zero. In this paper we propose a probabilistic generative model that allows us to estimate functional connectivity in terms of both partial correlations and a graph representing conditional independencies. Simulation results show that this methodology is able to outperform the graphical LASSO which is the de facto standard for estimating partial correlations. Furthermore we apply the model to estimate functional connectivity for twenty subjects using resting-state fMRI data. Results show that our model provides a richer representation of functional connectivity as compared to considering partial correlations alone. Finally we demonstrate how our approach can be extended in several ways for instance to achieve data fusion by informing the conditional independence graph with data from probabilistic tractography. As our Bayesian formulation of functional connectivity provides access to the posterior distribution instead of only to point estimates we are able to quantify the uncertainty associated with our results. This reveals that while we are able to infer a clear backbone of connectivity in our empirical results the data are not accurately described by simply looking at the mode of the distribution over connectivity. The implication of this is that deterministic alternatives may misjudge connectivity results by drawing conclusions from noisy and limited data. Bayesian Estimation of Conditional Independence Graphs Improves Functional Connectivity Estimates.