"Event-related potentials ERPs are often used in brain-computer interfaces BCIs for communication or system control for enhancing or regaining control for motor-disabled persons. Especially results from single-trial EEG classification approaches for BCIs support correlations between single-trial ERP detection performance and ERP expression. Hence BCIs can be considered as a paradigm shift contributing to new methods with strong influence on both neuroscience and clinical applications. Here we investigate the relevance of the choice of training data and classifier transfer for the interpretability of results from single-trial ERP detection. In our experiments subjects performed a visual-motor oddball task with motor-task relevant infrequent targets motor-task irrelevant infrequent deviants and motor-task irrelevant frequent standards stimuli. Under dual-task condition a secondary senso-motor task was performed compared to the simple-task condition. For evaluation average ERP analysis and single-trial detection analysis with different numbers of electrodes were performed. Further classifier transfer was investigated between simple and dual task. Parietal positive ERPs evoked by target stimuli but not by deviants were expressed stronger under dual-task condition which is discussed as an increase of task emphasis and brain processes involved in task coordination and change of task set. Highest classification performance was found for targets irrespective whether all 62 6 or 2 parietal electrodes were used. Further higher detection performance of targets compared to standards was achieved under dual-task compared to simple-task condition in case of training on data from 2 parietal electrodes corresponding to results of ERP average analysis. Classifier transfer between tasks improves classification performance in case that training took place on more varying examples from dual task. In summary we showed that P300 and overlaying parietal positive ERPs can successfully be detected while subjects are performing additional ongoing motor activity. This supports single-trial detection of ERPs evoked by target events to e.g. infer a patients attentional state during therapeutic intervention." Multi-Tasking and Choice of Training Data Influencing Parietal ERP Expression and Single-Trial Detection-Relevance for Neuroscience and Clinical Applications.