"Over a lifetime early developmental exposures to neurocognitive risk factors such as lead Pb exposures and prenatal stress PS will be followed by multiple varied behavioral experiences. Pb PS and behavioral experience can each influence brain epigenetic profiles. Our recent studies show a greater level of complexity however as all three factors interact within each sex to generate differential adult variation in global post-translational histone modifications PTHMs which may result in fundamentally different consequences for life-long learning and behavioral function. We have reported that PTHM profiles differ by sex brain region and time point of measurement following developmental exposures to PbPS resulting in different profiles for each unique combination of these parameters. Imposing differing behavioral experience following developmental PbPS results in additional divergence of PTHM profiles again in a sex brain region and time-dependent manner further increasing complexity. Such findings underscore the need to link highly localized and variable epigenetic changes along single genes to the highly-integrated brain functional connectome that is ultimately responsible for governing behavioral function. Here we advance the idea that increased understanding may be achieved through iterative reductionist and holistic approaches. Implications for experimental design of animal studies of developmental exposures to neurotoxicants include the necessity of a no behavioral experience group given that epigenetic changes in response to behavioral testing can confound effects of the neurotoxicant itself. They also suggest the potential utility of the inclusion of salient behavioral experiences as a potential effect modifier in epidemiological studies." Developmental Lead and/or Prenatal Stress Exposures Followed by Different Types of Behavioral Experience Result in the Divergence of Brain Epigenetic Profiles in a Sex Brain Region and Time-Dependent Manner: Implications for Neurotoxicology.