Cardiovascular disease risk factors CVD-RFs are associated with decreased gray and white matter integrity and cognitive impairment in older adults. Less is known regarding the interplay between CVD-RFs brain structural connectome integrity and cognition. We examined whether CVD-RFs were associated with measures of tract-based structural connectivity in 94 non-demented/non-depressed older adults and if alterations in connectivity mediated associations between CVD-RFs and cognition. Participants age\u202f=\u202f68.2 years; 52.1% female; 46.8% Black underwent CVD-RF assessment MRI and cognitive evaluation. Framingham 10-year stroke risk FSRP-10 quantified CVD-RFs. Graph theory analysis integrated T1-derived gray matter regions of interest ROIs; 23 a-priori ROIs associated with CVD-RFs and dementia and diffusion MRI-derived white matter tractography into connectivity matrices analyzed for local efficiency and nodal strength. A principal component analysis resulted in three rotated factor scores reflecting executive function EF; FAS Trail Making Test TMT B-A Letter-Number Sequencing Matrix Reasoning; attention/information processing AIP; TMT-A TMT-Motor Digit Symbol; and memory CVLT-II Trials 1-5 Total Delayed Free Recall Recognition Discriminability. Linear regressions between FSRP-10 and connectome ROIs adjusting for word reading intracranial volume and white matter hyperintensities revealed negative associations with nodal strength in eight ROIs p-values<.05 and negative associations with efficiency in two ROIs and a positive association in one ROI p-values<.05. There was mediation of bilateral hippocampal strength on FSRP-10 and AIP and left rostral middle frontal gyrus strength on FSRP-10 and AIP and EF. Stroke risk plays differential roles in connectivity and cognition suggesting the importance of multi-modal neuroimaging biomarkers in understanding age-related CVD-RF burden and brain-behavior. Cardiovascular disease risk factors tract-based structural connectomics and cognition in older adults.