In addition to mechanical compliance achieving the full potential of on-skin electronics needs the introduction of other features. For example substantial progress has been achieved in creating biodegradable self-healing or breathable on-skin electronics. However the research of making on-skin electronics with passive-cooling capabilities which can reduce energy consumption and improve user comfort is still rare. Herein we report the development of multifunctional on-skin electronics which can passively cool human bodies without needing any energy consumption. This property is inherited from multiscale porous polystyrene-block-polyethylene-ran-butylene-block-polystyrene SEBS supporting substrates. The multiscale pores of SEBS substrates with characteristic sizes ranging from around 0.2 to 7 m can effectively backscatter sunlight to minimize heat absorption but are too small to reflect human-body midinfrared radiation to retain heat dissipation thereby delivering around 6 C cooling effects under a solar intensity of 840 Wm-2 Other desired properties rooted in multiscale porous SEBS substrates include high breathability and outstanding waterproofing. The proof-of-concept bioelectronic devices include electrophysiological sensors temperature sensors hydration sensors pressure sensors and electrical stimulators which are made via spray printing of silver nanowires on multiscale porous SEBS substrates. The devices show comparable electrical performances with conventional rigid nonporous ones. Also their applications in cuffless blood pressure measurement interactive virtual reality and human-machine interface are demonstrated. Notably the enabled on-skin devices are dissolvable in several organic solvents and can be recycled to reduce electronic waste and manufacturing cost. Such on-skin electronics can serve as the basis for future multifunctional smart textiles with passive-cooling functionalities. Multiscale porous elastomer substrates for multifunctional on-skin electronics with passive-cooling capabilities.