Resting-state fMRI rs-fMRI can identify large-scale brain networks including the default mode DMN frontoparietal control FPN and dorsal attention DAN networks. Interactions among these networks are critical for supporting complex cognitive functions yet the way in which they are modulated across states is not well understood. Moreover it remains unclear whether these interactions are similarly affected in aging regardless of cognitive state. In this study we investigated age-related differences in functional interactions among the DMN FPN and DAN during rest and the Multi-Source Interference task MSIT. Networks were identified using independent component analysis ICA and functional connectivity was measured during rest and task. We found that the FPN was more coupled with the DMN during rest and with the DAN during the MSIT. The degree of FPN-DMN connectivity was lower in older compared to younger adults whereas no age-related differences were observed in FPN-DAN connectivity in either state. This suggests that dynamic interactions of the FPN are stable across cognitive states. The DMN and DAN were anti correlated and age-sensitive during the MSIT only indicating variation in a task-dependent manner. Increased levels of anticorrelation from rest to task also predicted successful interference resolution. Additional analyses revealed that the degree of DMN-DAN anticorrelation during the MSIT was associated to resting cerebral blood flow CBF within the DMN. This suggests that reduced DMN neural activity during rest underlies an impaired ability to achieve higher levels of anticorrelation during a task. Taken together our results suggest that only parts of age-related differences in connectivity are uncovered at rest and thus should be studied in the functional connectome across multiple states for a more comprehensive picture. Age-Related Differences in Dynamic Interactions Among Default Mode Frontoparietal Control and Dorsal Attention Networks during Resting-State and Interference Resolution.