"Low intensity transcranial electrical stimulation TES in humans encompassing transcranial direct current tDCS transcutaneous spinal Direct Current Stimulation tsDCS transcranial alternating current tACS and transcranial random noise tRNS stimulation or their combinations appears to be safe. No serious adverse events SAEs have been reported so far in over 18000 sessions administered to healthy subjects neurological and psychiatric patients as summarized here. Moderate adverse events AEs as defined by the necessity to intervene are rare and include skin burns with tDCS due to suboptimal electrode-skin contact. Very rarely mania or hypomania was induced in patients with depression 11 documented cases yet a causal relationship is difficult to prove because of the low incidence rate and limited numbers of subjects in controlled trials. Mild AEs MAEs include headache and fatigue following stimulation as well as prickling and burning sensations occurring during tDCS at peak-to-baseline intensities of 1-2mA and during tACS at higher peak-to-peak intensities above 2mA. The prevalence of published AEs is different in studies specifically assessing AEs vs. those not assessing them being higher in the former. AEs are frequently reported by individuals receiving placebo stimulation. The profile of AEs in terms of frequency magnitude and type is comparable in healthy and clinical populations and this is also the case for more vulnerable populations such as children elderly persons or pregnant women. Combined interventions e.g. co-application of drugs electrophysiological measurements neuroimaging were not associated with further safety issues. Safety is established for low-intensity conventional TES defined as <4mA up to 60min duration per day. Animal studies and modeling evidence indicate that brain injury could occur at predicted current densities in the brain of 6.3-13A/m2 that are over an order of magnitude above those produced by tDCS in humans. Using AC stimulation fewer AEs were reported compared to DC. In specific paradigms with amplitudes of up to 10mA frequencies in the kHz range appear to be safe. In this paper we provide structured interviews and recommend their use in future controlled studies in particular when trying to extend the parameters applied. We also discuss recent regulatory issues reporting practices and ethical issues. These recommendations achieved consensus in a meeting which took place in Gttingen Germany on September 6-7 2016 and were refined thereafter by email correspondence." Low intensity transcranial electric stimulation: Safety ethical legal regulatory and application guidelines.