Using diffusion MRI a number of studies have investigated the properties of whole-brain white matter WM networks with differing network construction methods node/edge definition. However how the construction methods affect individual differences of WM networks and particularly if distinct methods can provide convergent or divergent patterns of individual differences remain largely unknown. Here we applied 10 frequently used methods to construct whole-brain WM networks in a healthy young adult population 57 subjects which involves two node definitions low-resolution and high-resolution and five edge definitions binary FA weighted fiber-density weighted length-corrected fiber-density weighted and connectivity-probability weighted. For these WM networks individual differences were systematically analyzed in three network aspects: 1 a spatial pattern of WM connections 2 a spatial pattern of nodal efficiency and 3 network global and local efficiencies. Intriguingly we found that some of the network construction methods converged in terms of individual difference patterns but diverged with other methods. Furthermore the convergence/divergence between methods differed among network properties that were adopted to assess individual differences. Particularly high-resolution WM networks with differing edge definitions showed convergent individual differences in the spatial pattern of both WM connections and nodal efficiency. For the network global and local efficiencies low-resolution and high-resolution WM networks for most edge definitions consistently exhibited a highly convergent pattern in individual differences. Finally the test-retest analysis revealed a decent temporal reproducibility for the patterns of between-method convergence/divergence. Together the results of the present study demonstrated a measure-dependent effect of network construction methods on the individual difference of WM network properties. Convergence and divergence across construction methods for human brain white matter networks: an assessment based on individual differences.