"Peoples responses to products and/or choice environments are crucial to understanding in-store consumer behaviors. Currently there are various approaches e.g. surveys or laboratory settings to study in-store behaviors but the external validity of these is limited by their poor capability to resemble realistic choice environments. In addition building a real store to meet experimental conditions while controlling for undesirable effects is costly and highly difficult. A virtual store developed by virtual reality techniques potentially transcends these limitations by offering the simulation of a 3D virtual store environment in a realistic flexible and cost-efficient way. In particular a virtual store interactively allows consumers participants to experience and interact with objects in a tightly controlled yet realistic setting. This paper presents the key elements of using a desktop virtual store to study in-store consumer behavior. Descriptions of the protocol steps to: 1 build the experimental store 2 prepare the data management program 3 run the virtual store experiment and 4 organize and export data from the data management program are presented. The virtual store enables participants to navigate through the store choose a product from alternatives and select or return products. Moreover consumer-related shopping behaviors e.g. shopping time walking speed and number and type of products examined and bought can also be collected. The protocol is illustrated with an example of a store layout experiment showing that shelf length and shelf orientation influence shopping- and movement-related behaviors. This demonstrates that the use of a virtual store facilitates the study of consumer responses. The virtual store can be especially helpful when examining factors that are costly or difficult to change in real life e.g. overall store layout products that are not presently available in the market and routinized behaviors in familiar environments." Using a Virtual Store As a Research Tool to Investigate Consumer In-store Behavior.