Sub-clinical bovine mastitis decreases milk quality and production. Moreover sub-clinical mastitis leads to the use of antibiotics with consequent increased risk of the emergence of antibiotic-resistant bacteria. Therefore early detection of infected cows is of great importance. The Somatic Cell Count SCC day-test used for mastitis surveillance gives data that fluctuate widely between days creating questions about its reliability and early prediction power. The recent identification of risk parameters of sub-clinical mastitis based on milking parameters by machine learning models is emerging as a promising new tool to enhance early prediction of mastitis occurrence. To develop the optimal approach for early sub-clinical mastitis prediction we implemented 2 steps: 1 Finding the best statistical models to accurately link patterns of risk factors to sub-clinical mastitis and 2 Extending this application from the farms tested to new farms method generalization. Herein we applied various machine learning-based prediction systems on a big milking dataset to uncover the best predictive models of sub-clinical mastitis. Data from 364249 milking instances were collected by an electronic automated in-line monitoring system where milk volume lactose concentration electrical conductivity EC protein concentration peak flow and milking time for each sample were measured. To provide a platform for the application of the models developed to other farms the Z transformation approach was employed. Following this various prediction systems Deep Learning DL Nave Bayes Generalized Liner Model Logistic Regression Decision Tree Gradient-Boosted Tree GBT and Random Forest were applied to the non-transformed milking dataset and to a Z-standardized dataset. ROC Receiver Operating Characteristics Curve AUC Area Under The Curve and high accuracy demonstrated the high sensitivity of GBT and DL in detecting sub-clinical mastitis. GBT was the most accurate model accuracy of 84.9% in prediction of sub-clinical bovine mastitis. These data demonstrate how these models could be applied for prediction of sub-clinical mastitis in multiple bovine herds regardless of the size and sampling techniques. Comprehensive analysis of machine learning models for prediction of sub-clinical mastitis: Deep Learning and Gradient-Boosted Trees outperform other models.