Modulation of sensorimotor rhythm SMR power a rhythmic brain oscillation physiologically linked to motor imagery is a popular Brain-Machine Interface BMI paradigm but its interplay with slower cortical rhythms also involved in movement preparation and cognitive processing is not entirely understood. In this study we evaluated the changes in phase and power of slow cortical activity in delta and theta bands during a motor imagery task controlled by an SMR-based BMI system. In Experiment I EEG of 20 right-handed healthy volunteers was recorded performing a motor-imagery task using an SMR-based BMI controlling a visual animation and during task-free intervals. In Experiment II 10 subjects were evaluated along five daily sessions while BMI-controlling same visual animation a buzzer and a robotic hand exoskeleton. In both experiments feedback received from the controlled device was proportional to SMR power 11-14  Hz detected by a real-time EEG-based system. Synchronization of slow EEG frequencies along the trials was evaluated using inter-trial-phase coherence ITPC. Results: cortical oscillations of EEG in delta and theta frequencies synchronized at the onset and at the end of both active and task-free trials; ITPC was significantly modulated by feedback sensory modality received during the tasks; and ITPC synchronization progressively increased along the training. These findings suggest that phase-locking of slow rhythms and resetting by sensory afferences might be a functionally relevant mechanism in cortical control of motor function. We propose that analysis of phase synchronization of slow cortical rhythms might also improve identification of temporal edges in BMI tasks and might help to develop physiological markers for identification of context task switching and practice-related changes in brain function with potentially important implications for design and monitoring of motor imagery-based BMI systems an emerging tool in neurorehabilitation of stroke. Synchronization of Slow Cortical Rhythms During Motor Imagery-Based Brain-Machine Interface Control.