"State-of-the-art functional brain network reconstruction methods such as independent component analysis ICA or sparse coding of whole-brain fMRI data can effectively infer many thousands of volumetric brain network maps from a large number of human brains. However due to the variability of individual brain networks and the large scale of such networks needed for statistically meaningful group-level analysis it is still a challenging and open problem to derive group-wise common networks as network atlases. Inspired by the superior spatial pattern description ability of the deep convolutional neural networks CNNs a novel deep 3D convolutional autoencoder CAE network is designed here to extract spatial brain network features effectively based on which an Apache Spark enabled computational framework is developed for fast clustering of larger number of network maps into fine-granularity atlases. To evaluate this framework 10 resting state networks RSNs were manually labeled from the sparsely decomposed networks of Human Connectome Project HCP fMRI data and 5275 network training samples were obtained in total. Then the deep CAE models are trained by these functional networks spatial maps and the learned features are used to refine the original 10 RSNs into 17 network atlases that possess fine-granularity functional network patterns. Interestingly it turned out that some manually mislabeled outliers in training networks can be corrected by the deep CAE derived features. More importantly fine granularities of networks can be identified and they reveal unique network patterns specific to different brain task states. By further applying this method to a dataset of mild traumatic brain injury study it shows that the technique can effectively identify abnormal small networks in brain injury patients in comparison with controls. In general our work presents a promising deep learning and big data analysis solution for modeling functional connectomes with fine granularities based on fMRI data." Constructing fine-granularity functional brain network atlases via deep convolutional autoencoder.