Functional near-infrared spectroscopy fNIRS is a non-invasive vascular-based functional neuroimaging technology that can assess simultaneously from multiple cortical areas concentration changes in oxygenated-deoxygenated hemoglobin at the level of the cortical microcirculation blood vessels. fNIRS with its high degree of ecological validity and its very limited requirement of physical constraints to subjects could represent a valid tool for monitoring cortical responses in the research field of neuroergonomics. In virtual reality VR real situations can be replicated with greater control than those obtainable in the real world. Therefore VR is the ideal setting where studies about neuroergonomics applications can be performed. The aim of the present study was to investigate by a 20-channel fNIRS system the dorsolateral/ventrolateral prefrontal cortex DLPFC/VLPFC in subjects while performing a demanding VR hand-controlled task HCT. Considering the complexity of the HCT its execution should require the attentional resources allocation and the integration of different executive functions. The HCT simulates the interaction with a real remotely-driven system operating in a critical environment. The hand movements were captured by a high spatial and temporal resolution 3-dimensional 3D hand-sensing device the LEAP motion controller a gesture-based control interface that could be used in VR for tele-operated applications. Fifteen University students were asked to guide with their right hand/forearm a virtual ball VB over a virtual route VROU reproducing a 42 m narrow road including some critical points. The subjects tried to travel as long as possible without making VB fall. The distance traveled by the guided VB was 70.2  37.2 m. The less skilled subjects failed several times in guiding the VB over the VROU. Nevertheless a bilateral VLPFC activation in response to the HCT execution was observed in all the subjects. No correlation was found between the distance traveled by the guided VB and the corresponding cortical activation. These results confirm the suitability of fNIRS technology to objectively evaluate cortical hemodynamic changes occurring in VR environments. Future studies could give a contribution to a better understanding of the cognitive mechanisms underlying human performance either in expert or non-expert operators during the simulation of different demanding/fatiguing activities. Prefrontal Cortex Activation Upon a Demanding Virtual Hand-Controlled Task: A New Frontier for Neuroergonomics.