Bipolar disorder BD particularly BD II is frequently misdiagnosed as unipolar depression UD leading to inappropriate treatment and poor clinical outcomes. Although depressive symptoms may be expressed similarly in UD and BD the similarities and differences in the architecture of brain functional networks between the two disorders are still unknown. In this study we hypothesized that UD and BD II patients would show convergent and divergent patterns of disrupted topological organization of the functional connectome especially in the default mode network DMN and the limbic network. Brain resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging fMRI data were acquired from 32 UD-unmedicated patients 31 unmedicated BD II patients current episode depressed and 43 healthy subjects. Using graph theory we systematically studied the topological organization of their whole-brain functional networks at the following three levels: whole brain modularity and node. First both the UD and BD II patients showed increased characteristic path length and decreased global efficiency compared with the controls. Second both the UD and BD II patients showed disrupted intramodular connectivity within the DMN and limbic system network. Third decreased nodal characteristics nodal strength and nodal efficiency were found predominantly in brain regions in the DMN limbic network and cerebellum of both the UD and BD II patients whereas differences between the UD and BD II patients in the nodal characteristics were also observed in the precuneus and temporal pole. Convergent deficits in the topological organization of the whole brain DMN and limbic networks may reflect overlapping pathophysiological processes in unipolar and bipolar depression. Our discovery of divergent regional connectivity that supports emotion processing could help to identify biomarkers that will aid in differentiating these disorders. Topologically convergent and divergent functional connectivity patterns in unmedicated unipolar depression and bipolar disorder.