Previous studies have indicated that aerobic exercise could reduce age related decline in cognition and brain functioning. Here we investigated the effects of aerobic exercise on intrinsic brain activity. Sixty sedentary healthy males and females 64-78 years were randomized into either an aerobic exercise group or an active control group. Both groups recieved supervised training 3 days a week for 6 months. Multimodal brain imaging data was acquired before and after the intervention including 10 min of resting state brain functional magnetic resonance imaging rs-fMRI and arterial spin labeling ASL. Additionally a comprehensive battery of cognitive tasks assessing e.g. executive function and episodic memory was administered. Both the aerobic and the control group improved in aerobic capacity VO2-peak over 6 months but a significant group by time interaction confirmed that the aerobic group improved more. Contrary to our hypothesis we did not observe any significant group by time interactions with regard to any measure of intrinsic activity. To further probe putative relationships between fitness and brain activity we performed post hoc analyses disregarding group belongings. At baseline VO2-peak was negativly related to BOLD-signal fluctuations BOLDSTD in mid temporal areas. Over 6 months improvements in aerobic capacity were associated with decreased connectivity between left hippocampus and contralateral precentral gyrus and positively to connectivity between right mid-temporal areas and frontal and parietal regions. Independent component analysis identified a VO2-related increase in coupling between the default mode network and left orbitofrontal cortex as well as a decreased connectivity between the sensorimotor network and thalamus. Extensive exploratory data analyses of global efficiency connectome wide multivariate pattern analysis connectome-MVPA as well as ASL did not reveal any relationships between aerobic fitness and intrinsic brain activity. Moreover fitness-predicted changes in functional connectivity did not relate to changes in cognition which is likely due to absent cross-sectional or longitudinal relationships between VO2-peak and cognition. We conclude that the aerobic exercise intervention had limited influence on patterns of intrinsic brain activity although post hoc analyses indicated that individual changes in aerobic capacity preferentially influenced mid-temporal brain areas. Does Aerobic Exercise Influence Intrinsic Brain Activity? An Aerobic Exercise Intervention among Healthy Old Adults.