"Self-regulation refers to the successful use of executive functions and initiation of top-down processes to control ones thoughts behavior and emotions and it is crucial to perform self-control. Self-control is needed to overcome impulses and can be assessed by delay of gratification DoG and delay discounting DD paradigms. In children/adolescents good DoG/DD ability depends on the maturity of frontostriatal connectivity and its decline in strength with advancing age might adversely affect self-control because prefrontal brain regions are more prone to normal age-related atrophy than other regions. Here we aimed at highlighting the relationship between frontostriatal connectivity strength and DoG performance in advanced age. We recruited 40 healthy elderly individuals mean age 74.0  7.7 years and assessed the DoG ability using the German version of the DoG test for adults in addition to the delay discounting DD paradigm. Based on diffusion-weighted and resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging data respectively the structural and functional whole-brain connectome were reconstructed based on 90 different brain regions of interest in addition to a 12-node frontostriatal DoG-specific network and the resulting connectivity matrices were subjected to network-based statistics. The 90-nodes whole-brain connectome analyses revealed subnetworks significantly associated with DoG and DD with a preponderance of frontostriatal nodes involved suggesting a high specificity of the findings. Structural and functional connectivity strengths between the putamen caudate nucleus and nucleus accumbens on the one hand and orbitofrontal dorsal and ventral lateral prefrontal cortices on the other hand showed strong positive correlations with DoG and negative correlations with DD corrected for age sex intracranial volume and head motion parameters. These associations cannot be explained by differences in impulsivity and executive functioning. This pattern of correlations between structural or functional frontostriatal connectivity strength and self-control suggests that in addition to the importance of the frontostriatal nodes itself the structural and functional properties of different connections within the frontostriatal network are crucial for self-controlled behaviors in the healthy elderly. Because high DoG/low DD is a significant predictor of willpower and wellbeing in the elderly population interventions aiming at strengthening frontostriatal connectivity to strengthen self-controlled behavior are needed in the future." Strength of Structural and Functional Frontostriatal Connectivity Predicts Self-Control in the Healthy Elderly.