"Spectral entropy which was generated by applying the Shannon entropy concept to the power distribution of the Fourier-transformed electroencephalograph EEG was utilized to measure the uniformity of power spectral density underlying EEG when subjects performed the working memory tasks twice i.e. before and after training. According to Signed Residual Time SRT scores based on response speed and accuracy trade-off 20 subjects were divided into two groups namely high-performance and low-performance groups to undertake working memory WM tasks. We found that spectral entropy derived from the retention period of WM on channel FC4 exhibited a high correlation with SRT scores. To this end spectral entropy was used in support vector machine classifier with linear kernel to differentiate these two groups. Receiver operating characteristics analysis and leave-one out cross-validation LOOCV demonstrated that the averaged classification accuracy CA was 90.0 and 92.5% for intra-session and inter-session respectively indicating that spectral entropy could be used to distinguish these two different WM performance groups successfully. Furthermore the support vector regression prediction model with radial basis function kernel and the root-mean-square error of prediction revealed that spectral entropy could be utilized to predict SRT scores on individual WM performance. After testing the changes in SRT scores and spectral entropy for each subject by short-time training we found that 16 in 20 subjects SRT scores were clearly promoted after training and 15 in 20 subjects SRT scores showed consistent changes with spectral entropy before and after training. The findings revealed that spectral entropy could be a promising indicator to predict individuals WM changes by training and further provide a novel application about WM for brain-computer interfaces." Spectral Entropy Can Predict Changes of Working Memory Performance Reduced by Short-Time Training in the Delayed-Match-to-Sample Task.