Comprehensive and unambiguous identification of small molecules in complex samples will revolutionize our understanding of the role of metabolites in biological systems. Existing and emerging technologies have enabled measurement of chemical properties of molecules in complex mixtures and in concert are sensitive enough to resolve even stereoisomers. Despite these experimental advances small molecule identification is inhibited by i chemical reference libraries e.g. mass spectra collision cross section and other measurable property libraries representing <1% of known molecules limiting the number of possible identifications and ii the lack of a method to generate candidate matches directly from experimental features i.e. without a library. To this end we developed a variational autoencoder VAE to learn a continuous numerical or latent representation of molecular structure to expand reference libraries for small molecule identification. We extended the VAE to include a chemical property decoder trained as a multitask network in order to shape the latent representation such that it assembles according to desired chemical properties. The approach is unique in its application to metabolomics and small molecule identification with its focus on properties that can be obtained from experimental measurements m/z CCS paired with its training paradigm which involved a cascade of transfer learning iterations. First molecular representation is learned from a large data set of structures with m/z labels. Next in silico property values are used to continue training as experimental property data is limited. Finally the network is further refined by being trained with the experimental data. This allows the network to learn as much as possible at each stage enabling success with progressively smaller data sets without overfitting. Once trained the network can be used to predict chemical properties directly from structure as well as generate candidate structures with desired chemical properties. Our approach is orders of magnitude faster than first-principles simulation for CCS property prediction. Additionally the ability to generate novel molecules along manifolds defined by chemical property analogues positions DarkChem as highly useful in a number of application areas including metabolomics and small molecule identification drug discovery and design chemical forensics and beyond. Deep Learning to Generate in Silico Chemical Property Libraries and Candidate Molecules for Small Molecule Identification in Complex Samples.