"Extracellular -amyloid A plaque deposits and inflammatory immune activation are thought to alter various aspects of tissue microstructure such as extracellular free water fractional anisotropy and diffusivity as well as the density and geometric arrangement of axonal processes. Quantifying these microstructural changes in Alzheimers disease and related neurodegenerative dementias could serve to monitor or predict disease course. In the present study we used high-field diffusion magnetic resonance imaging dMRI to investigate the effects of A and inflammatory interleukin-6 IL6 alone or in combination on in vivo tissue microstructure in the TgCRND8 mouse model of Alzheimers-type A deposition. TgCRND8 and non-transgenic nTg mice expressing brain-targeted IL6 or enhanced glial fibrillary protein EGFP controls were scanned at 8 months of age using a 2-shell 54-gradient direction dMRI sequence at 11.1\u202fT. Images were processed using the diffusion tensor imaging DTI model or the neurite orientation dispersion and density imaging NODDI model. DTI and NODDI processing in TgCRND8 mice revealed a microstructure pattern in white matter WM and hippocampus consistent with radial and longitudinal diffusivity deficits along with an increase in density and geometric complexity of axonal and dendritic processes. This included reduced FA mean axial and radial diffusivity and increased orientation dispersion ODI and intracellular volume fraction ICVF measured in WM and hippocampus. IL6 produced a protective-like effect on WM FA in TgCRND8 mice observed as an increased FA that counteracted a reduction in FA observed with endogenous A production and accumulation. In addition we found that ICVF and ODI had an inverse relationship with the functional connectome clustering coefficient. The relationship between NODDI and graph theory metrics suggests that currently unknown microstructure alterations in WM and hippocampus are associated with diminished functional network organization in the brain." Neurite orientation dispersion and density imaging reveals white matter and hippocampal microstructure changes produced by Interleukin-6 in the TgCRND8 mouse model of amyloidosis.