Transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS induced motor evoked potentials MEPs are an established proxy of corticospinal excitability. As a binary measure the presence MEP+ or absence MEP- of ipsilesional hemisphere MEPs early following stroke is a robust indicator of long-term recovery however this measure does not provide information about spatial cortical reorganization. MEPs have been systematically acquired over the sensorimotor cortex to "map" motor topography. In this investigation we compared the degree to which functional improvements resulting from early <3 months post-stroke intensive hand focused upper limb rehabilitation correlate with changes in motor topography between MEP+ and MEP- individuals. Following informed consent 17 individuals 4 Female 60.3  9.4 years 24.6  24.01 days post first time stroke received 8 one hour-sessions of training with virtual reality VR/Robotic simulations. Clinical tests Box and Blocks Test BBT Wolf Motor Function Test WMFT Upper Extremity Fugl-Meyer UEFMA kinematic and kinetic assessments finger Active Range of Motion finger AROM Maximum Pinch Force MPF and bilateral TMS mapping of 5 hand muscles were performed prior to PRE directly following POST and 1 month following 1M training. Participants were divided into two groups MEP+ MEP- based on whether an MEP was present in the affected first dorsal interosseous FDI at any time point. MEP+ individuals improved significantly more than MEP- individuals from PRE to 1M on the WMFT BBT and finger AROM scores. Ipsilesional hemisphere FDI area increased significantly with time in the MEP+ group. FDI area of the contralesional hemisphere was not significantly different across time points or groups. In the MEP+ group significant correlations were observed between PRE-1M changes in ipsilesional FDI area and WMFT BBT and finger AROM and contralesional FDI area and UEFMA and MPF. In the MEP- group no significant correlations were found between changes in contralesional FDI area and functional outcomes. We report preliminary evidence in a small sample that patterns of recovery and the association of recovery to bilateral changes in motor topography may depend on integrity of the ipsilesional cortical spinal tract as assessed by the presence of TMS evoked MEPs. The Association Between Reorganization of Bilateral M1 Topography and Function in Response to Early Intensive Hand Focused Upper Limb Rehabilitation Following Stroke Is Dependent on Ipsilesional Corticospinal Tract Integrity.