Real-time fMRI neurofeedback rtfMRI-nf enables noninvasive targeted intervention in brain activation with high spatial specificity. To achieve this promise of rtfMRI-nf we introduced and demonstrated a data-driven framework to design a rtfMRI-nf intervention through the discovery of precise target location associated with clinical symptoms and neurofeedback signal optimization. Specifically we identified the functional connectivity locus associated with rumination symptoms utilizing a connectome-wide search in resting-state fMRI data from a large cohort of mood and anxiety disorder individuals N\xa0=\xa0223 and healthy controls N\xa0=\xa045. Then we performed a rtfMRI simulation analysis to optimize the online functional connectivity neurofeedback signal for the identified functional connectivity. The connectome-wide search was performed in the medial prefrontal cortex and the posterior cingulate cortex/precuneus brain regions to identify the precise location of the functional connectivity associated with rumination severity as measured by the ruminative response style RRS scale. The analysis found that the functional connectivity between the loci in the precuneus -6 -54 48\xa0mm in MNI and the right temporo-parietal junction RTPJ; 49 -49 23\xa0mm was positively correlated with RRS scores depressive p\xa0<\xa00.001; brooding p\xa0<\xa00.001; reflective p\xa0=\xa00.002 in the mood and anxiety disorder group. We then performed a rtfMRI processing simulation to optimize the online computation of the precuneus-RTPJ connectivity. We determined that the two-point method without a control region was appropriate as a functional connectivity neurofeedback signal with less dependence on signal history and its accommodation of head motion. The present study offers a discovery framework for the precise location of functional connectivity targets for rtfMRI-nf intervention which could help directly translate neuroimaging findings into clinical rtfMRI-nf interventions. Connectome-wide search for functional connectivity locus associated with pathological rumination as a target for real-time fMRI neurofeedback intervention.