Although extensively investigated in socio-cognitive neuroscience empathy is difficult to study. The first difficulty originates in its multifaceted nature. According to the multidimensional model empathy combines emotional automatic simulation cognitive mentalizing and regulatory executive functions processes. Substantial functional magnetic resonance imaging fMRI data demonstrated that co-activations in the mirror neuron system MNS and mentalizing network MENT sustain this co-recruitment of so-called first- and second-person-like processes. Because of the poor temporal resolution of fMRI techniques we currently lack evidence about the precise timing of the MNS-MENT combination. An important challenge is thus to disentangle how MNS and MENT dynamically work together along time in empathy. Moreover the role of the executive functions in the MNS-MENT combination time course is still unknown. Second empathy - feeling into - is closely related to sympathy - feeling with - and both phenomena are often conflated in experimental studies on intersubjectivity. In this electrical neuroimaging EEG pilot-study we tested whether the egocentered vs. heterocentered visuo-spatial mechanisms respectively associated with sympathy and empathy differentially modulate the dynamic combination of the MNS-MENT activations in their respective neural time course. For that we employed our newly developed behavioral paradigm assessing the visuo-spatial - but not emotional - features of empathy and sympathy. Using a data-driven approach we report that empathy and sympathy are underlied by sequential activations in the MNS from the insula to the inferior frontal gyrus IFG between 63ms and 424ms. However at 333-424ms empathy triggered greater co-activations in the right IFG and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex dlPFC executive functions. Linking together our present and prior Thirioux et al. 2010 findings from the same dataset we suggest that this greater recruitment of the right dlPFC monitors the shift from egocentered and first-person-like mechanisms in the MNS to heterocentered and second-person-like mechanisms in the left temporo-parietal junction within the MENT i.e. reflecting the onset of perspective-change processes in the neural time course of empathy. Contrasting with sympathy this recruitment of the executive functions could modulate the output end of the mirroring processing in the premotor and sensorimotor cortices. The cognitive and neural time course of empathy and sympathy: an electrical neuroimaging study on self-other interaction.