"Electrocorticographic brain computer interfaces ECoG-BCIs offer tremendous opportunities for restoring function in individuals suffering from neurological damage and for advancing basic neuroscience knowledge. ECoG electrodes are already commonly used clinically for monitoring epilepsy and have greater spatial specificity in recording neuronal activity than techniques such as electroencephalography EEG. Much work to date in the field has focused on using ECoG signals recorded from cortex as control outputs for driving end effectors. An equally important but less explored application of an ECoG-BCI is directing input into cortex using ECoG electrodes for direct electrical stimulation DES. Combining DES with ECoG recording enables a truly bidirectional BCI where information is both read from and written to the brain. We discuss the advantages and opportunities as well as the barriers and challenges presented by using DES in an ECoG-BCI. In this article we review ECoG electrodes the physics and physiology of DES and the use of electrical stimulation of the brain for the clinical treatment of disorders such as epilepsy and Parkinsons disease. We briefly discuss some of the translational regulatory financial and ethical concerns regarding ECoG-BCIs. Next we describe the use of ECoG-based DES for providing sensory feedback and for probing and modifying cortical connectivity. We explore future directions which may draw on invasive animal studies with penetrating and surface electrodes as well as non-invasive stimulation methods such as transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS. We conclude by describing enabling technologies such as smaller ECoG electrodes for more precise targeting of cortical areas signal processing strategies for simultaneous stimulation and recording and computational modeling and algorithms for tailoring stimulation to each individual brain." Direct Electrical Stimulation in Electrocorticographic Brain-Computer Interfaces: Enabling Technologies for Input to Cortex.