"Alzheimers disease AD is the most common dementia with dramatic consequences. The research in structural and functional neuroimaging showed altered brain connectivity in AD. In this study we investigated the whole-brain resting state functional connectivity FC of the subjects with preclinical Alzheimers disease PAD mild cognitive impairment due to AD MCI and mild dementia due to Alzheimers disease AD the impact of APOE4 carriership as well as in relation to variations in core AD CSF biomarkers. The synchronization in the whole-brain was monotonously decreasing during the course of the disease progression. Furthermore in AD patients we found widespread significant decreases in functional connectivity FC strengths particularly in the brain regions with high global connectivity. We employed a whole-brain computational modeling approach to study the mechanisms underlying these alterations. To characterize the causal interactions between brain regions we estimated the effective connectivity EC in the model. We found that the significant EC differences in AD were primarily located in left temporal lobe. Then we systematically manipulated the underlying dynamics of the model to investigate simulated changes in FC based on the healthy control subjects. Furthermore we found distinct patterns involving CSF biomarkers of amyloid-beta A1\xa0-\xa042 total tau t-tau and phosphorylated tau p-tau. CSF A1\xa0-\xa042 was associated to the contrast between healthy control subjects and clinical groups. Nevertheless tau CSF biomarkers were associated to the variability in whole-brain synchronization and sensory integration regions. These associations were robust across clinical groups unlike the associations that were found for CSF A1\xa0-\xa042. APOE4 carriership showed no significant correlations with the connectivity measures." "A whole-brain computational modeling approach to explain the alterations in resting-state functional connectivity during progression of Alzheimers disease."