"One of the most intriguing questions in evolution is how organisms exhibit suitable phenotypic variation to rapidly adapt in novel selective environments. Such variability is crucial for evolvability but poorly understood. In particular how can natural selection favour developmental organisations that facilitate adaptive evolution in previously unseen environments? Such a capacity suggests foresight that is incompatible with the short-sighted concept of natural selection. A potential resolution is provided by the idea that evolution may discover and exploit information not only about the particular phenotypes selected in the past but their underlying structural regularities: new phenotypes with the same underlying regularities but novel particulars may then be useful in new environments. If true we still need to understand the conditions in which natural selection will discover such deep regularities rather than exploiting quick fixes i.e. fixes that provide adaptive phenotypes in the short term but limit future evolvability. Here we argue that the ability of evolution to discover such regularities is formally analogous to learning principles familiar in humans and machines that enable generalisation from past experience. Conversely natural selection that fails to enhance evolvability is directly analogous to the learning problem of over-fitting and the subsequent failure to generalise. We support the conclusion that evolving systems and learning systems are different instantiations of the same algorithmic principles by showing that existing results from the learning domain can be transferred to the evolution domain. Specifically we show that conditions that alleviate over-fitting in learning systems successfully predict which biological conditions e.g. environmental variation regularity noise or a pressure for developmental simplicity enhance evolvability. This equivalence provides access to a well-developed theoretical framework from learning theory that enables a characterisation of the general conditions for the evolution of evolvability." How evolution learns to generalise: Using the principles of learning theory to understand the evolution of developmental organisation.