A new Brain-Computer Interface BCI technique which is called a hybrid BCI has recently been proposed to address the limitations of conventional single BCI system. Although some hybrid BCI studies have shown promising results the field of hybrid BCI is still in its infancy and there is much to be done. Especially since the hybrid BCI systems are so complicated and complex it is difficult to understand the constituent and role of a hybrid BCI system at a glance. Also the complicated and complex systems make it difficult to evaluate the usability of the systems. We systematically reviewed and analyzed the current state-of-the-art hybrid BCI studies and proposed a systematic taxonomy for classifying the types of hybrid BCIs with multiple taxonomic criteria. After reviewing 74 journal articles hybrid BCIs could be categorized with respect to 1 the source of brain signals 2 the characteristics of the brain signal and 3 the characteristics of operation in each system. In addition we exhaustively reviewed recent literature on usability of BCIs. To identify the key evaluation dimensions of usability we focused on task and measurement characteristics of BCI usability. We classified and summarized 31 BCI usability journal articles according to task characteristics type and description of task and measurement characteristics subjective and objective measures. Afterwards we proposed usability dimensions for BCI and hybrid BCI systems according to three core-constructs: Satisfaction effectiveness and efficiency with recommendations for further research. This paper can help BCI researchers even those who are new to the field can easily understand the complex structure of the hybrid systems at a glance. Recommendations for future research can also be helpful in establishing research directions and gaining insight in how to solve ergonomics and HCI design issues surrounding BCI and hybrid BCI systems by usability evaluation. A systematic review of hybrid brain-computer interfaces: Taxonomy and usability perspectives.