"Alzheimers disease AD is a great threat for the health and life of elderly people. MicroRNA-128 miR-128 has been reported to be abnormally expressed in the brain of AD patients and associated with the pathogenesis of AD. Our study aimed to have a deep insight into the roles and molecular basis of miR-128 in the development and progression of AD. The cognitive ability and exploratory behaviors were assessed by morris water maze and open-field tests respectively. The concentrations of amyloid- A 40 A 42 tumor necrosis factor TNF- interleukin IL-1 and IL-10 and activity of -secretase and -secretase were determined by corresponding ELISA commercial kits. RT-qPCR assay was performed to detect miR-128 level and the mRNA expression of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma PPAR ionized calcium-binding adaptor molecule 1 Iba1 and glial fibrillary acidic protein GFAP. Western blot assay was conducted to determine protein expression of PPAR amyloid precursor protein APP -APP cleaving enzyme BACE1 sAPP and sAPP. The effect of miR-128 and PPAR on amyloid plaque formation was assessed by immunohistochemistry assay. PPAR mean optical density was determined by immunofluorescence assay. The interaction between miR-128 and PPAR were validated by bioinformatics analysis and luciferase reporter assay. We found AD mice showed AD-like performance and an increased cerebral cortex A production. MiR-128 expression was upregulated and PPAR expression was downregulated in cerebral cortex of AD mice. Moreover PPAR was a target of miR-128. Additionally miR-128 knockout or PPAR upregulation inhibited AD-like performances amyloid plaque formation A generation APP amyloidogenic processing and inflammatory responses in AD mice while these effects of miR-128 knockout were abrogated by PPAR inhibitor. The results indicated MiR-128 knockout weakened AD-like performances and reduced A production and inflammatory responses by targeting PPAR in AD mice." "MicroRNA-128 knockout inhibits the development of Alzheimers disease by targeting PPAR in mouse models."