"Neurodegenerative disease is the umbrella term which refers to a range of clinical conditions causing degeneration of neurons within the central nervous system leading to loss of brain function and eventual death. The most prevalent of these is Alzheimers disease AD which affects approximately 50 million people worldwide and is predicted to reach 75 million by 2030. Neurodegenerative diseases can only be fully diagnosed at post mortem by neuropathological assessment of the type and distribution of protein deposits which characterise each different condition but there is a clear role for imaging technologies in aiding patient diagnoses in life. Magnetic resonance imaging MRI and spectroscopy MRS techniques have been applied to study these conditions for many years. In this review we consider the range of MR-based measurements and describe the findings in AD but also contrast these with the second most common dementia dementia with Lewy bodies DLB. The most definitive observation is the major structural brain changes seen in AD using conventional T1-weighted T1w MRI where medial temporal lobe structures are notably atrophied in most symptomatic patients with AD but often preserved in DLB. Indeed these findings are sufficiently robust to have been incorporated into clinical diagnostic criteria. Diffusion tensor imaging DTI reveals widespread changes in tissue microstructure with increased mean diffusivity and decreased fractional anisotropy reflecting the degeneration of the white matter structures. There are suggestions that there are subtle differences between AD and DLB populations. At the metabolic level atrophy-corrected MRS demonstrates reduced density of healthy neurons in brain areas with altered perfusion and in regions known to show higher deposits of pathogenic proteins. As studies have moved from patients with advanced disease and clear dysfunction to patients with earlier presentation such as with mild cognitive impairment MCI which in some represents the first signs of their ensuing dementia the ability of MRI to detect differences has been weaker and further work is still required ideally in much larger cohorts than previously studied. The vast majority of imaging research in dementia populations has been univariate with respect to the MR-derived parameters considered. To date none of these measurements has uniquely replicated the patterns of tissue involvement seen by neuropathology and the ability of MR techniques to deliver a non-invasive diagnosis eludes us. Future opportunities may lie in combining MR and nuclear medicine approaches position emission tomography PET to provide a more complete view of structural and metabolic changes. Such developments will require multi-variate analyses possibly combined with artificial intelligence or deep learning algorithms to enhance our ability to combine the array of image-derived information genetic gender and lifestyle factors." MR approaches in neurodegenerative disorders.