Motion sickness is a term that is commonly used to describe the ill effects of many provocative motion e.g. seagoing or air travel and apparent motion e.g. IMAX movies and virtual reality environments on human well-being and performance. It can be extremely debilitating and yet we do not have a precise understanding of its cause. This study evaluates the importance of three factors that are purported to be involved in the etiology of motion sickness MS. Most provocative motion environments cause three distinct but possibly related responses: reflexive eye movements EM sensory conflict SC and postural instability PS. Three current theories concerning the etiology of motion sickness emphasize one of these responses but deny the importance of the others. Such theoretical approaches preclude the possibility of a synergistic interaction of these factors. This experiment employed a three-factor experimental design wherein each factor was manipulated alone or in combination with the others. The independent variables involved two levels of: PS induced by having the subject stand on a stationary platform or on a posturally challenging platform mounted atop a partially inflated rubber inner tube; SC with or without illusory self movement elicited visually by whole field stimulation; and EM unrestricted or controlled by a stable fixation point. Analysis of measures of PS SC and EM confirmed the effectiveness of these manipulations. Analysis of MS measures questionnaires magnitude ratings tolerance times revealed a main effect of SC p < 0.01 increased MS found with illusory self motion conditions. In addition measures of MS symptomatology revealed a significant three-way interaction between SC PS and EM p < 0.05 greater amounts of MS found with conditions of illusory self motion postural challenge and unrestricted EM. This suggests support for a multi-factorial approach to the study of MS etiology. These findings suggest a major role of SC in the elicitation of MS but also suggest important contributions from the EM and PS mechanisms. The role of vection eye movements and postural instability in the etiology of motion sickness.