"The aims of this study were to test the face content and construct validities of a virtual-reality haptic arthroscopy simulator and to validate four assessment hypothesis. The participants in our study were 94 arthroscopists attending an international conference on arthroscopy. The interviewed surgeons had been performing arthroscopies for a mean of 8.71\xa0years \xa0=\xa06.94\xa0years. We explained the operation functionality instructions for use and the exercises provided by the simulator. They performed a trial exercise and then an exercise in which performance was recorded. After having using it the arthroscopists answered a questionnaire. The simulator was classified as one of the best training methods over phantoms and obtained a mark of 7.10 out of 10 as an evaluation tool. The simulator was considered more useful for inexperienced surgeons than for surgeons with experience mean difference 1.88 out of 10 P value\xa0<\xa00.001. The participants valued the simulator at 8.24 as a tool for learning skills its fidelity at 7.41 the quality of the platform at 7.54 and the content of the exercises at 7.09. It obtained a global score of 7.82. Of the subjects 30.8% said they would practise with the simulator more than 6\xa0h per week. Of the surgeons 89.4% affirmed that they would recommend the simulator to their colleagues. The data gathered support the first three hypotheses as well as face and content validities. Results show statistically significant differences between experts and novices thus supporting the construct validity but studies with a larger sample must be carried out to verify this. We propose concrete solutions and an equation to calculate economy of movement. Analogously we analyze competence measurements and propose an equation to provide a single measurement that contains them all and that according to the surgeons criteria is as reliable as the judgment of experts observing the performance of an apprentice." Assessment study of insight ARTHRO VR  arthroscopy virtual training simulator: face content and construct validities.