"OBJECTIVE Different surgical routes have been used over the years to achieve adequate decompression of the optic nerve in its canal including more recently endoscopic approaches performed either through the endonasal corridor or the transorbital one. The present study aimed to detail and quantify the amount of bone removal around the optic canal achievable via medial-to-lateral endonasal and lateral-to-medial transorbital endoscopic trajectories. METHODS Five human cadaveric heads 10 sides were dissected at the Laboratory of Surgical Neuroanatomy of the University of Barcelona Spain. The laboratory rehearsals were run as follows: 1 preliminary preoperative CT scans of each specimen 2 anatomical endoscopic endonasal and transorbital dissections and Dextroscope-based morphometric analysis and 3 quantitative analysis of optic canal bone removal for both endonasal and transorbital endoscopic approaches. RESULTS The endoscopic endonasal route permitted exposure and removal of the most inferomedial portion of the optic canal an average of 168 whereas the transorbital pathway allowed good control of its superolateral part an average of 192. Considering the total circumference of the optic canal 360 the transorbital route enabled removal of a mean of 53.3% of bone mainly the superolateral portion. The endonasal approach provided bone removal of a mean of 46.7% of the inferomedial aspect. This result was found to be statistically significant p < 0.05. The morphometric analysis performed with the aid of the Dextroscope a virtual reality environment showed that the simulation of the transorbital trajectory may provide a shorter surgical corridor with a wider angle of approach 39.6 mm; 46.8 compared with the simulation of the endonasal pathway 52.9 mm; 23.8. CONCLUSIONS Used together these 2 endoscopic surgical paths endonasal and transorbital may allow a 360 decompression of the optic nerve. To the best of the authors knowledge this is the first anatomical study on transorbital optic nerve decompression to show its feasibility. Further studies and eventually surgical case series are mandatory to confirm the effectiveness of these approaches thereby refining the proper indications for each of them." Endoscopic endonasal medial-to-lateral and transorbital lateral-to-medial optic nerve decompression: an anatomical study with surgical implications.