Purpose To develop and evaluate the feasibility of deep learning approaches for magnetic resonance MR imaging-based attenuation correction AC termed deep MRAC in brain positron emission tomography PET/MR imaging. Materials and Methods A PET/MR imaging AC pipeline was built by using a deep learning approach to generate pseudo computed tomographic CT scans from MR images. A deep convolutional auto-encoder network was trained to identify air bone and soft tissue in volumetric head MR images coregistered to CT data for training. A set of 30 retrospective three-dimensional T1-weighted head images was used to train the model which was then evaluated in 10 patients by comparing the generated pseudo CT scan to an acquired CT scan. A prospective study was carried out for utilizing simultaneous PET/MR imaging for five subjects by using the proposed approach. Analysis of covariance and paired-sample t tests were used for statistical analysis to compare PET reconstruction error with deep MRAC and two existing MR imaging-based AC approaches with CT-based AC. Results Deep MRAC provides an accurate pseudo CT scan with a mean Dice coefficient of 0.971  0.005 for air 0.936  0.011 for soft tissue and 0.803  0.021 for bone. Furthermore deep MRAC provides good PET results with average errors of less than 1% in most brain regions. Significantly lower PET reconstruction errors were realized with deep MRAC -0.7%  1.1 compared with Dixon-based soft-tissue and air segmentation -5.8%  3.1 and anatomic CT-based template registration -4.8%  2.2. Conclusion The authors developed an automated approach that allows generation of discrete-valued pseudo CT scans soft tissue bone and air from a single high-spatial-resolution diagnostic-quality three-dimensional MR image and evaluated it in brain PET/MR imaging. This deep learning approach for MR imaging-based AC provided reduced PET reconstruction error relative to a CT-based standard within the brain compared with current MR imaging-based AC approaches.  RSNA 2017 Online supplemental material is available for this article. Deep Learning MR Imaging-based Attenuation Correction for PET/MR Imaging.