"People who survive a stroke usually suffer movement disorders resulting in involuntary abnormal movements. Intensive and repetitive physiotherapy is often a key to functional restoration of movements. Rehabilitation centers have recently offered balance training supported by exergames in addition to conventional therapy. The primary objective was to investigate different types of balance training multi-exergaming and conventional in addition to a conventional 6-week physiotherapy program. Furthermore we examined the choice of an appropriate exergame to target balance training. We designed a randomized pilot trial. Hospital inpatients with stroke aged 33-65 were recruited and randomized into 2 groups by drawing lots; a control group receiving 1 week of conventional balance training and an exergaming group 1 week of multiple-game exergaming comprising single leg exercises weight shifting balancing and standing up. Center of pressure was monitored for the exergaming group and clinical data were collected non-blinded assessment using Four Square Step Test Timed Up and Go 10 m Walk Test Romberg Sharpened Romberg Clinical Test for Sensory Interaction in Balance in both groups. Statistical tests were used to find significant p < 0.05 differences and Cohens U3 for effect sizes. Recruited participants 20/30 met the inclusion criteria and were randomized; 10 per group. 1 participant of the exergaming group was excluded from center of pressure analysis. Both groups demonstrated substantively and statistically significant improvements of functional balance in particular the exergaming group FSST p = 0.009 U3 = 0.9 and 10 MWT p = 0.008 U3 = 0.9. However significant differences between the groups were found in tests with eyes closed Sharpened Romberg test p = 0.05 and standing on the right leg p = 0.035. The center of pressure area decreased up to 20% for the exergaming group. Both types of additional balance training demonstrated comparable outcomes however the multi-exergaming could target specific motor control disorders by the selection of exergames according to Gentiles taxonomy. We may not prioritize exergaming due to the low statistical power of clinical outcomes. However exergaming enables independent balance training which is feasible without strenuous physiotherapy and may thus be crucial for future home or telerehabilitation services. Clinical Trial Registration: www.clinicaltrials.gov/ identifier NCT03282968." Multi-Exergames to Set Targets and Supplement the Intensified Conventional Balance Training in Patients With Stroke: A Randomized Pilot Trial.