"The anatomical structure of the human brain varies widely as does individual cognitive behavior. It is important and interesting to study the relationship between brain structure and cognitive behavior. There has however been little previous work on the relationship between inhibitory control and brain structure. The goal of this study was to elucidate possible cortical markers related to inhibitory control using structural magnetic resonance imaging sMRI data. In this study we analyzed sMRI data and inhibitory control behavior measurement values from 361 healthy adults from the Human Connectome Project HCP. The data of all participants were divided into two datasets. In the first dataset we first constructed individual brain morphometric similarity networks by calculating the inter-regional statistical similarity relationship of nine cortical characteristic measures such as volume for each brain area obtained from sMRI data. Areas that covary in their morphology are termed connected. After that we used a brain connectome-based predictive model CPM to search for connected brain areas that were significantly related to inhibitory control. This is a purely data-driven method with built-in cross-validation. Two different connected patterns were observed for high and low inhibitory control networks. The high inhibitory control network comprised 25 connections edges between nodes mostly involving nodes in the prefrontal and especially orbitofrontal cortex and inferior frontal gyrus. In the low inhibitory control network nodes were scattered between parietal occipital and limbic areas. Furthermore these connections were verified as reliable and generalizable in a cross-validation dataset. Two regions of interest the right ventromedial prefrontal cortex including a part of medial area 10 R.OFCmed and left middle temporal gyrus L.MTG were crucial nodes in the two networks respectively which suggests that these two regions may be fundamentally involved in inhibitory control. Our findings potentially help to understand the relationship between areas with a correlated cortical structure and inhibitory control and further help to reveal the brain systems related to inhibition and its disorders." Predicting human inhibitory control from brain structural MRI.