"The word e-motion derives from the Latin word ex-moveo which literally means moving away from something/somebody. Emotions are thus fundamental to prime action and goal-directed behavior with obvious implications for individuals survival. However the brain mechanisms underlying the interactions between emotional and motor cortical systems remain poorly understood. A recent diffusion tensor imaging study in humans has reported the existence of direct anatomical connections between the amygdala and sensory/premotor cortices corroborating an initial observation in animal research. Nevertheless the functional significance of these amygdala-sensory/premotor pathways remain uncertain. More specifically it is currently unclear whether a distinct amygdala-sensory/premotor circuit can be identified with resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging rs-fMRI. This is a key issue as rs-fMRI offers an opportunity to simultaneously examine distinct neural circuits that underpin different cognitive emotional and motor functions while minimizing task-related performance confounds. We therefore tested the hypothesis that the amygdala and sensory/premotor cortices could be identified as part of the same resting-state functional connectivity network. To this end we examined independent component analysis results in a very large rs-fMRI data-set drawn from the Human Connectome Project n\xa0=\xa0820 participants mean age: 28.5\xa0years. To our knowledge we report for the first time the existence of a distinct amygdala-sensory/premotor functional network at rest. rs-fMRI studies are now warranted to examine potential abnormalities in this circuit in psychiatric and neurological diseases that may be associated with alterations in the amygdala-sensory/premotor pathways e.g. conversion disorders impulse control disorders amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and multiple sclerosis." Functional connectivity in amygdalar-sensory/premotor networks at rest: new evidence from the Human Connectome Project.