Brain-machine interfaces BMIs using motor cortical activity to drive an external effector like a screen cursor or a robotic arm have seen enormous success and proven their great rehabilitation potential. An emerging parallel effort is now directed to BMIs controlled by endogenous cognitive activity also called cognitive BMIs. While more challenging this approach opens new dimensions to the rehabilitation of cognitive disorders. In the present work we focus on BMIs driven by visuospatial attention signals and we provide a critical review of these studies in the light of the accumulated knowledge about the psychophysics anatomy and neurophysiology of visual spatial attention. Importantly we provide a unique comparative overview of the several studies ranging from non-invasive to invasive human and non-human primates studies that decode attention-related information from ongoing neuronal activity. We discuss these studies in the light of the challenges attention-driven cognitive BMIs have to face. In a second part of the review we discuss past and current attention-based neurofeedback studies describing both the covert effects of neurofeedback onto neuronal activity and its overt behavioral effects. Importantly we compare neurofeedback studies based on the amplitude of cortical activity to studies based on the enhancement of cortical information content. Last we discuss several lines of future research and applications for attention-driven cognitive brain-computer interfaces BCIs including the rehabilitation of cognitive deficits restored communication in locked-in patients and open-field applications for enhanced cognition in normal subjects. The core motivation of this work is the key idea that the improvement of current cognitive BMIs for therapeutic and open field applications needs to be grounded in a proper interdisciplinary understanding of the physiology of the cognitive function of interest be it spatial attention working memory or any other cognitive signal. Selective visual attention to drive cognitive brain-machine interfaces: from concepts to neurofeedback and rehabilitation applications.