"Alzheimers disease AD is an irreversible neurodegenerative disorder with progressive impairment of memory and cognitive functions. Structural magnetic resonance images MRI play important role to evaluate the brain anatomical changes for AD Diagnosis. Machine learning technologies have been widely studied on MRI computation and analysis for quantitative evaluation and computer-aided-diagnosis of AD. Most existing methods extract the hand-craft features after image processing such as registration and segmentation and then train a classifier to distinguish AD subjects from other groups. Motivated by the success of deep learning in image classification this paper proposes a classification method based on multiple cluster dense convolutional neural networks DenseNets to learn the various local features of MR brain images which are combined for AD classification. First we partition the whole brain image into different local regions and extract a number of 3D patches from each region. Second the patches from each region are grouped into different clusters with the K-Means clustering method. Third we construct a DenseNet to learn the patch features for each cluster and the features learned from the discriminative clusters of each region are ensembled for classification. Finally the classification results from different local regions are combined to enhance final image classification. The proposed method can gradually learn the MRI features from the local patches to global image level for the classification task. There are no rigid registration and segmentation required for preprocessing MRI images. Our method is evaluated using T1-weighted MRIs of 831 subjects including 199 AD patients 403 mild cognitive impairment MCI and 229 normal control NC subjects from Alzheimers Disease Neuroimaging Initiative ADNI database. Experimental results show that the proposed method achieves an accuracy of 89.5% and an AUC area under the ROC curve of 92.4% for AD vs. NC classification and an accuracy of 73.8% and an AUC of 77.5% for MCI vs. NC classification demonstrating the promising classification performances." "Alzheimers disease diagnosis based on multiple cluster dense convolutional networks."