Background - The novel SARs-CoV-2 coronavirus is responsible for the global COVID-19 pandemic. Small studies have shown a potential benefit of chloroquine/hydroxychloroquine  azithromycin for the treatment of COVID-19. Use of these medications alone or in combination can lead to a prolongation of the QT interval possibly increasing the risk of Torsade de pointes TdP and sudden cardiac death. Methods - Hospitalized patients treated with chloroquine/hydroxychloroquine  azithromycin from March 1st through the 23rd at three hospitals within the Northwell Health system were included in this prospective observational study. Serial assessments of the QT interval were performed. The primary outcome was QT prolongation resulting in TdP. Secondary outcomes included QT prolongation the need to prematurely discontinue any of the medications due to QT prolongation and arrhythmogenic death. Results - Two hundred one patients were treated for COVID-19 with chloroquine/hydroxychloroquine. Ten patients 5.0% received chloroquine 191 95.0% received hydroxychloroquine and 119 59.2% also received azithromycin. The primary outcome of TdP was not observed in the entire population. Baseline QTc intervals did not differ between patients treated with chloroquine/hydroxychloroquine monotherapy group vs. those treated with combination group chloroquine/hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin 440.6  24.9 ms vs. 439.9  24.7 ms p =0.834. The maximum QTc during treatment was significantly longer in the combination group vs the monotherapy group 470.4  45.0 ms vs. 453.3  37.0 ms p = 0.004. Seven patients 3.5% required discontinuation of these medications due to QTc prolongation. No arrhythmogenic deaths were reported. Conclusions - In the largest reported cohort of COVID-19 patients to date treated with chloroquine/hydroxychloroquine {plus minus} azithromycin no instances of TdP or arrhythmogenic death were reported. Although use of these medications resulted in QT prolongation clinicians seldomly needed to discontinue therapy. Further study of the need for QT interval monitoring is needed before final recommendations can be made. The Effect of Chloroquine Hydroxychloroquine and Azithromycin on the Corrected QT Interval in Patients with SARS-CoV-2 Infection.