"Because both development and context impact functional brain architecture the neural connectivity signature of a cognitive or affective predisposition may similarly vary across different ages and circumstances. To test this hypothesis we investigated the effects of age and cognitive versus social-affective context on the stable and time-varying neural architecture of inhibition the putative core cognitive control component in a subsample N = 359 22-36 years 174 men of the Human Connectome Project. Among younger individuals a neural signature of superior inhibition emerged in both stable and dynamic connectivity analyses. Dynamically a context-free signature emerged as stronger segregation of internal cognition default mode and environmentally driven control salience cingulo-opercular systems. A dynamic social-affective context-specific signature was observed most clearly in the visual system. Stable connectivity analyses revealed both context-free greater default mode segregation and context-specific greater frontoparietal segregation for higher cognitive load; greater attentional and environmentally driven control system segregation for greater reward value signatures of inhibition. Superior inhibition in more mature adulthood was typified by reduced segregation in the default network with increasing reward value and increased ventral attention but reduced cingulo-opercular and subcortical system segregation with increasing cognitive load. Failure to evidence this neural profile after the age of 30 predicted poorer life functioning. Our results suggest that distinguishable neural mechanisms underlie individual differences in cognitive control during different young adult stages and across tasks thereby underscoring the importance of better understanding the interplay among dispositional developmental and contextual factors in shaping adaptive versus maladaptive patterns of thought and behavior.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT The brains functional architecture changes across different contexts and life stages. To test whether the neural signature of a trait similarly varies we investigated cognitive versus social-affective context effects on the stable and time-varying neural architecture of inhibition during a period of neurobehavioral fine-tuning age 22-36 years. Younger individuals with superior inhibition showed distinguishable context-free and context-specific neural profiles evidenced in both static and dynamic connectivity analyses. More mature individuals with superior inhibition evidenced only context-specific profiles revealed in the static connectivity patterns linked to increased reward or cognitive load. Delayed expression of this profile predicted poorer life functioning. Our results underscore the importance of understanding the interplay among dispositional developmental and contextual factors in shaping behavior." Contextual and Developmental Differences in the Neural Architecture of Cognitive Control.