"Since the acquisition of high-resolution three-dimensional patient images has become widespread medical volumetric datasets CT or MR larger than 100 MB and encompassing more than 250 slices are common. It is important to make this patient-specific data quickly available and usable to many specialists at different geographical sites. Web-based systems have been developed to provide volume or surface rendering of medical data over networks with low fidelity but these cannot adequately handle stereoscopic visualization or huge datasets. State-of-the-art virtual reality techniques and high speed networks have made it possible to create an environment for clinicians geographically distributed to immersively share these massive datasets in real-time. An object-oriented method for instantaneously importing medical volumetric data into Tele-Immersive environments has been developed at the Virtual Reality in Medicine Laboratory VRMedLab at the University of Illinois at Chicago UIC. This networked-VR setup is based on LIMBO an application framework or template that provides the basic capabilities of Tele-Immersion. We have developed a modular general purpose Tele-Immersion program that automatically combines 3D medical data with the methods for handling the data. For this purpose a DICOM loader for IRIS Performer has been developed. The loader was designed for SGI machines as a shared object which is executed at LIMBOs runtime. The loader loads not only the selected DICOM dataset but also methods for rendering handling and interacting with the data bringing networked real-time stereoscopic interaction with radiological data to reality. Collaborative interactive methods currently implemented in the loader include cutting planes and windowing. The Tele-Immersive environment has been tested on the UIC campus over an ATM network. We tested the environment with 3 nodes; one ImmersaDesk at the VRMedLab one CAVE at the Electronic Visualization Laboratory EVL on east campus and a CT scan machine in UIC Hospital. CT data was pulled directly from the scan machine to the Tele-Immersion server in our Laboratory and then the data was synchronously distributed by our Onyx2 Rack server to all the VR setups. Instead of permitting medical volume visualization at one VR device by combining teleconferencing tele-presence and virtual reality the Tele-Immersive environment will enable geographically distributed clinicians to intuitively interact with the same medical volumetric models point gesture converse and see each other. This environment will bring together clinicians at different geographic locations to participate in Tele-Immersive consultation and collaboration." Radiological tele-immersion for next generation networks.