"Cognitive motor dissociation describes a subset of patients with disorders of consciousness who show neuroimaging evidence of consciousness but no detectable command-following behaviours. Although essential for family counselling decision-making and the design of rehabilitation programmes the prognosis for patients with cognitive motor dissociation remains under-investigated. The current study included 78 patients with disorders of consciousness who showed no detectable command-following behaviours. These patients included 45 patients with unresponsive wakefulness syndrome and 33 patients in a minimally conscious state as diagnosed using the Coma Recovery Scale-Revised. Each patient underwent an EEG-based brain-computer interface experiment in which he or she was instructed to perform an item-selection task i.e. select a photograph or a number from two candidates. Patients who achieved statistically significant brain-computer interface accuracies were identified as cognitive motor dissociation. Two evaluations using the Coma Recovery Scale-Revised one before the experiment and the other 3 months later were carried out to measure the patients behavioural improvements. Among the 78 patients with disorders of consciousness our results showed that within the unresponsive wakefulness syndrome patient group 15 of 18 patients with cognitive motor dissociation 83.33% regained consciousness while only five of the other 27 unresponsive wakefulness syndrome patients without significant brain-computer interface accuracies 18.52% regained consciousness. Furthermore within the minimally conscious state patient group 14 of 16 patients with cognitive motor dissociation 87.5% showed improvements in their Coma Recovery Scale-Revised scores whereas only four of the other 17 minimally conscious state patients without significant brain-computer interface accuracies 23.53% had improved Coma Recovery Scale-Revised scores. Our results suggest that patients with cognitive motor dissociation have a better outcome than other patients. Our findings extend current knowledge of the prognosis for patients with cognitive motor dissociation and have important implications for brain-computer interface-based clinical diagnosis and prognosis for patients with disorders of consciousness." Prognosis for patients with cognitive motor dissociation identified by brain-computer interface.