Patients with late-life depression LLD have a higher incident of developing dementia especially individuals with memory deficits. However little is known about the white matter characteristics of LLD with memory deficits LLD-MD in the human connectome especially for the rich-club coefficient which is an indicator that describes the organization pattern of hub in the network. To address this question diffusion tensor imaging of 69 participants 15 LLD-MD patients; 24 patients with LLD with intact memory LLD-IM; and 30 healthy controls HC was applied to construct a brain network for each individual. A full-scale battery of neuropsychological tests were used for grouping and evaluating executive function processing speed and memory. Rich-club analysis and global network properties were utilized to describe the topological features in each group. Network-based statistics NBS were calculated to identify the impaired subnetwork in the LLD-MD group relative to that in the LLD-IM group. We found that compared with HC participants patients with LLD LLD-MD and LLD-IM had relatively impaired rich-club organizations and rich-club connectivity. In addition LLD-MD group exhibited lower feeder and local connective average strength than LLD-IM group. Furthermore global network properties such as the shortest path length connective strength efficiency and fault tolerant efficiency were significantly decreased in the LLD-MD group relative to those in the LLD-IM and HC groups. According to NBS analysis a subnetwork including right cognitive control network CCN and corticostriatal circuits were disrupted in LLD-MD patients. In conclusion the disease effects of LLD were prevalent in rich-club organization. Feeder and local connections especially in the subnetwork including right CCN and corticostriatal circuits were further impaired in those with memory deficits. Global network properties were disrupted in LLD-MD patients relative to those in LLD-IM patients. Weight Rich-Club Analysis in the White Matter Network of Late-Life Depression with Memory Deficits.