Sensor data are gaining increasing global attention due to the advent of Internet of Things IoT. Reasoning is applied on such sensor data in order to compute prediction. Generating a health warning that is based on prediction of atmospheric pollution planning timely evacuation of people from vulnerable areas with respect to prediction of natural disasters etc. are the use cases of sensor data stream where prediction is vital to protect people and assets. Thus prediction accuracy is of paramount importance to take preventive steps and avert any untoward situation. Uncertainties of sensor data is a severe factor which hampers prediction accuracy. Belief Rule Based Expert System BRBES a knowledge-driven approach is a widely employed prediction algorithm to deal with such uncertainties based on knowledge base and inference engine. In connection with handling uncertainties it offers higher accuracy than other such knowledge-driven techniques e.g. fuzzy logic and Bayesian probability theory. Contrarily Deep Learning is a data-driven technique which constitutes a part of Artificial Intelligence AI. By applying analytics on huge amount of data Deep Learning learns the hidden representation of data. Thus Deep Learning can infer prediction by reasoning over available data such as historical data and sensor data streams. Combined application of BRBES and Deep Learning can compute prediction with improved accuracy by addressing sensor data uncertainties while utilizing its discovered data pattern. Hence this paper proposes a novel predictive model that is based on the integrated approach of BRBES and Deep Learning. The uniqueness of this model lies in the development of a mathematical model to combine Deep Learning with BRBES and capture the nonlinear dependencies among the relevant variables. We optimized BRBES further by applying parameter and structure optimization on it. Air pollution prediction has been taken as use case of our proposed combined approach. This model has been evaluated against two different datasets. One dataset contains synthetic images with a corresponding label of PM2.5 concentrations. The other one contains real images PM2.5 concentrations and numerical weather data of Shanghai China. We also distinguished a hazy image between polluted air and fog through our proposed model. Our approach has outperformed only BRBES and only Deep Learning in terms of prediction accuracy. An Integrated Approach of Belief Rule Base and Deep Learning to Predict Air Pollution.