Diffusion MRI dMRI-based tractography offers unique abilities to map whole-brain structural connections in human and animal brains. However dMRI-based tractography indirectly measures white matter tracts with suboptimal accuracy and reliability. Recently sophisticated methods including constrained spherical deconvolution CSD and global tractography have been developed to improve tract reconstructions through modeling of more complex fiber orientations. Our study aimed to determine the accuracy of connectome reconstruction for three dMRI-based tractography approaches: diffusion tensor DT-based CSD-based and global tractography. Therefore we validated whole brain structural connectome reconstructions based on ten ultrahigh-resolution dMRI rat brain scans and 106 cortical regions from which varying tractography parameters were compared against standardized neuronal tracer data. All tested tractography methods generated considerable numbers of false positive and false negative connections. There was a parameter range trade-off between sensitivity: 0.06-0.63 interhemispherically and 0.22-0.86 intrahemispherically; and specificity: 0.99-0.60 interhemispherically and 0.99-0.23 intrahemispherically. Furthermore performance of all tractography methods decreased with increasing spatial distance between connected regions. Similar patterns and trade-offs were found when we applied spherical deconvolution informed filtering of tractograms streamline thresholding and group-based average network thresholding. Despite the potential of CSD-based and global tractography to handle complex fiber orientations at voxel level reconstruction accuracy especially for long-distance connections remains a challenge. Hence connectome reconstruction benefits from varying parameter settings and combination of tractography methods to account for anatomical variation of neuronal pathways. Diffusion MRI-based cortical connectome reconstruction: dependency on tractography procedures and neuroanatomical characteristics.