Intelligent agents such as robots have to serve a multitude of autonomous functions. Examples are e.g. collision avoidance navigation and route planning active sensing of its environment or the interaction and non-verbal communication with people in the extended reach space. Here we focus on the recognition of the action of a human agent based on a biologically inspired visual architecture of analyzing articulated movements. The proposed processing architecture builds upon coarsely segregated streams of sensory processing along different pathways which separately process form and motion information Layher et al. 2014. Action recognition is performed in an event-based scheme by identifying representations of characteristic pose configurations key poses in an image sequence. In line with perceptual studies key poses are selected unsupervised utilizing a feature-driven criterion which combines extrema in the motion energy with the horizontal and the vertical extendedness of a body shape. Per class representations of key pose frames are learned using a deep convolutional neural network consisting of 15 convolutional layers. The network is trained using the energy-efficient deep neuromorphic networks Eedn framework Esser et al. 2016 which realizes the mapping of the trained synaptic weights onto the IBM Neurosynaptic System platform Merolla et al. 2014. After the mapping the trained network achieves real-time capabilities for processing input streams and classify input images at about 1000 frames per second while the computational stages only consume about 70 mW of energy without spike transduction. Particularly regarding mobile robotic systems a low energy profile might be crucial in a variety of application scenarios. Cross-validation results are reported for two different datasets and compared to state-of-the-art action recognition approaches. The results demonstrate that I the presented approach is on par with other key pose based methods described in the literature which select key pose frames by optimizing classification accuracy II compared to the training on the full set of frames representations trained on key pose frames result in a higher confidence in class assignments and III key pose representations show promising generalization capabilities in a cross-dataset evaluation. Real-Time Biologically Inspired Action Recognition from Key Poses Using a Neuromorphic Architecture.