Background: Assessment of cognitive development is essential to identify children with faltering developmental attainment and monitor the impact of interventions. A key barrier to achieving these goals is the lack of standardized scalable tools to assess cognitive abilities. Objective: This study aimed to develop a tablet-based gamified assessment of cognitive abilities of 3-year-old children which can be administered by non-specialist field workers. Methods: Workshops among domain experts literature search for established and gamified paradigms of cognitive assessments and rapid review of mobile games for 3-year-old children was done to conceptualize games for this study. Formative household visits N\xa0=\xa020 informed the design and content of the games. A cross-sectional pilot study N\xa0=\xa0100 was done to assess feasibility of the tool and check if increasing levels of difficulty and the expected variability between children were evident in game metrics. In-depth interviews N\xa0=\xa09 were conducted with mothers of participating children to assess its acceptability. Results: Six cognitive domains were identified as being integral to learning - divided attention response inhibition reasoning visual form perception and integration and memory. A narrative musical soundtrack and positive reinforcement were incorporated into the tool to enhance participant engagement. Child performance determined level timers and difficulty levels in each game. Pilot data indicate that children differ in their performance profile on the tool as measured by the number of game levels played and their accuracy and completion time indicating that it might be possible to differentiate children based on these metrics. Qualitative data suggest high levels of acceptability of the tool amongst participants. Conclusions: A DEvelopmental assessment on an E-Platform DEEP has been created comprising distinct games woven into a narrative which assess six cognitive domains and shows high levels of acceptability and generates metrics which may be used for validation against gold standard cognitive assessments. Development feasibility and acceptability of a gamified cognitive DEvelopmental assessment on an E-Platform DEEP in rural Indian pre-schoolers - a pilot study.