Multivariate pattern analysis can reveal new information from neuroimaging data to illuminate human cognition and its disturbances. Here we develop a methodological approach based on multivariate statistical/machine learning and time series analysis to discern cognitive processing stages from functional magnetic resonance imaging fMRI blood oxygenation level dependent BOLD time series. We apply this method to data recorded from a group of healthy adults whilst performing a virtual reality version of the delayed win-shift radial arm maze RAM task. This task has been frequently used to study working memory and decision making in rodents. Using linear classifiers and multivariate test statistics in conjunction with time series bootstraps we show that different cognitive stages of the task as defined by the experimenter namely the encoding/retrieval choice reward and delay stages can be statistically discriminated from the BOLD time series in brain areas relevant for decision making and working memory. Discrimination of these task stages was significantly reduced during poor behavioral performance in dorsolateral prefrontal cortex DLPFC but not in the primary visual cortex V1. Experimenter-defined dissection of time series into class labels based on task structure was confirmed by an unsupervised bottom-up approach based on Hidden Markov Models. Furthermore we show that different groupings of recorded time points into cognitive event classes can be used to test hypotheses about the specific cognitive role of a given brain region during task execution. We found that whilst the DLPFC strongly differentiated between task stages associated with different memory loads but not between different visual-spatial aspects the reverse was true for V1. Our methodology illustrates how different aspects of cognitive information processing during one and the same task can be separated and attributed to specific brain regions based on information contained in multivariate patterns of voxel activity. A statistical approach for segregating cognitive task stages from multivariate fMRI BOLD time series.