"Alzheimers disease AD is an incurable neurodegenerative disorder accounting for 70%-80% dementia cases worldwide. Although research on AD has increased in recent years however the complexity associated with brain structure and functions makes the early diagnosis of this disease a challenging task. Resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging rs-fMRI is a neuroimaging technology that has been widely used to study the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases. In literature the computer-aided diagnosis of AD is limited to binary classification or diagnosis of AD and MCI stages. However its applicability to diagnose multiple progressive stages of AD is relatively under-studied. This study explores the effectiveness of rs-fMRI for multi-class classification of AD and its associated stages including CN SMC EMCI MCI LMCI and AD. A longitudinal cohort of resting-state fMRI of 138 subjects 25 CN 25 SMC 25 EMCI 25 LMCI 13 MCI and 25\xa0AD from Alzheimers Disease Neuroimaging Initiative ADNI is studied. To provide a better insight into deep learning approaches and their applications to AD classification we investigate ResNet-18 architecture in detail. We consider the training of the network from scratch by using single-channel input as well as performed transfer learning with and without fine-tuning using an extended network architecture. We experimented with residual neural networks to perform AD classification task and compared it with former research in this domain. The performance of the models is evaluated using precision recall f1-measure AUC and ROC curves. We found that our networks were able to significantly classify the subjects. We achieved improved results with our fine-tuned model for all the AD stages with an accuracy of 100% 96.85% 97.38% 97.43% 97.40% and 98.01% for CN SMC EMCI LMCI MCI and AD respectively. However in terms of overall performance we achieved state-of-the-art results with an average accuracy of 97.92% and 97.88% for off-the-shelf and fine-tuned models respectively. The Analysis of results indicate that classification and prediction of neurodegenerative brain disorders such as AD using functional magnetic resonance imaging and advanced deep learning methods is promising for clinical decision making and have the potential to assist in early diagnosis of AD and its associated stages." "A Deep Learning Approach for Automated Diagnosis and Multi-Class Classification of Alzheimers Disease Stages Using Resting-State fMRI and Residual Neural Networks."