Reducing radiation dose is important for PET imaging. However reducing injection doses causes increased image noise and low signal-to-noise ratio SNR subsequently affecting diagnostic and quantitative accuracies. Deep learning methods have shown a great potential to reduce the noise and improve the SNR in low dose PET data. In this work we comprehensively investigated the quantitative accuracy of small lung nodules in addition to visual image quality using deep learning based denoising methods for oncological PET imaging. We applied and optimized an advanced deep learning method based on the U-net architecture to predict the standard dose PET image from 10% low-dose PET data. We also investigated the effect of different network architectures image dimensions labels and inputs for deep learning methods with respect to both noise reduction performance and quantitative accuracy. Normalized mean square error NMSE SNR and standard uptake value SUV bias of different nodule regions of interest ROIs were used for evaluation. Our results showed that U-net and GAN are superior to CAE with smaller SUVmean and SUVmax bias at the expense of inferior SNR. A fully 3D U-net has optimal quantitative performance compared to 2D and 2.5D U-net with less than 15% SUVmean bias for all the ten patients. U-net outperforms Residual U-net r-U-net in general with smaller NMSE higher SNR and lower SUVmax bias. Fully 3D U-net is superior to several existing denoising methods including Gaussian filter anatomical-guided non-local mean NLM filter and MAP reconstruction with Quadratic prior and relative difference prior in terms of superior image quality and trade-off between noise and bias. Furthermore incorporating aligned CT images has the potential to further improve the quantitative accuracy in multi-channel U-net. We found the optimal architectures and parameters of deep learning based methods are different for absolute quantitative accuracy and visual image quality. Our quantitative results demonstrated that fully 3D U-net can both effectively reduce image noise and control bias even for sub-centimeter small lung nodules when generating standard dose PET using 10% low count down-sampled data. An investigation of quantitative accuracy for deep learning based denoising in oncological PET.