"This work presents a classification performance comparison between different frameworks for functional connectivity evaluation and complex network feature extraction aiming to distinguish motor imagery classes in electroencephalography EEG-based brain-computer interfaces BCIs. The analysis was performed in two online datasets: 1 a classical benchmark-the BCI competition IV dataset 2a-allowing a comparison with a representative set of strategies previously employed in this BCI paradigm and 2 a statistically representative dataset for signal processing technique comparisons over 52 subjects. Besides exploring three classical similarity measures-Pearson correlation Spearman correlation and mean phase coherence-this work also proposes a recurrence-based alternative for estimating EEG brain functional connectivity which takes into account the recurrence density between pairwise electrodes over a time window. These strategies were followed by graph feature evaluation considering clustering coefficient degree betweenness centrality and eigenvector centrality. The features were selected by Fishers discriminating ratio and classification was performed by a least squares classifier in agreement with classical and online BCI processing strategies. The results revealed that the recurrence-based approach for functional connectivity evaluation was significantly better than the other frameworks which is probably associated with the use of higher order statistics underlying the electrode joint probability estimation and a higher capability of capturing nonlinear inter-relations. There were no significant differences in performance among the evaluated graph features but the eigenvector centrality was the best feature regarding processing time. Finally the best ranked graph-based attributes were found in classical EEG motor cortex positions for the subjects with best performances relating functional organization and motor activity. Graphical Abstract Evaluating functional connectivity based on Space-Time Recurrence Counting for motor imagery classification in brain-computer interfaces. Recurrences are evaluated between electrodes over a time window and after a density threshold the electrodes adjacency matrix is stablish leading to a graph. Graph-based topological measures are used for motor imagery classification." Space-time recurrences for functional connectivity evaluation and feature extraction in motor imagery brain-computer interfaces.