With an aim to increase the capture range and accelerate the performance of state-of-the-art inter-subject and subject-to-template 3-D rigid registration we propose deep learning-based methods that are trained to find the 3-D position of arbitrarily-oriented subjects or anatomy in a canonical space based on slices or volumes of medical images. For this we propose regression convolutional neural networks CNNs that learn to predict the angle-axis representation of 3-D rotations and translations using image features. We use and compare mean square error and geodesic loss to train regression CNNs for 3-D pose estimation used in two different scenarios: slice-to-volume registration and volume-to-volume registration. As an exemplary application we applied the proposed methods to register arbitrarily oriented reconstructed images of fetuses scanned in-utero at a wide gestational age range to a standard atlas space. Our results show that in such registration applications that are amendable to learning the proposed deep learning methods with geodesic loss minimization achieved 3-D pose estimation with a wide capture range in real-time <100ms. We also tested the generalization capability of the trained CNNs on an expanded age range and on images of newborn subjects with similar and different MR image contrasts. We trained our models on T2-weighted fetal brain MRI scans and used them to predict the 3-D pose of newborn brains based on T1-weighted MRI scans. We showed that the trained models generalized well for the new domain when we performed image contrast transfer through a conditional generative adversarial network. This indicates that the domain of application of the trained deep regression CNNs can be further expanded to image modalities and contrasts other than those used in training. A combination of our proposed methods with accelerated optimization-based registration algorithms can dramatically enhance the performance of automatic imaging devices and image processing methods of the future. Real-Time Deep Pose Estimation With Geodesic Loss for Image-to-Template Rigid Registration.