Extracting a connectome from an electron microscopy EM data set requires identification of neurons and determination of connections synapses between neurons. As manual extraction of this information is very time-consuming there has been extensive research efforts to automatically segment the neurons to help guide and eventually replace manual tracing. Until recently there has been comparatively little research on automatic detection of the actual synapses between neurons. This discrepancy can in part be attributed to several factors: obtaining neuronal shapes is a prerequisite for the first step in extracting a connectome manual tracing is much more time-consuming than annotating synapses and neuronal contact area can be used as a proxy for synapses in determining connections. However recent research has demonstrated that contact area alone is not a sufficient predictor of a synaptic connection. Moreover as segmentation improved we observed that synapse annotation consumes a more significant fraction of overall reconstruction time upwards of 50% of total effort. This ratio will only get worse as segmentation improves gating the overall possible speed-up. Therefore we address this problem by developing algorithms that automatically detect presynaptic neurons and their postsynaptic partners. In particular presynaptic structures are detected using a U-Net convolutional neural network CNN and postsynaptic partners are detected using a multilayer perceptron MLP with features conditioned on the local segmentation. This work is novel because it requires minimal amount of training leverages advances in image segmentation directly and provides a complete solution for polyadic synapse detection. We further introduce novel metrics to evaluate our algorithm on connectomes of meaningful size. When applied to the output of our method on EM data from Drosphila these metrics demonstrate that a completely automatic prediction can be used to effectively characterize most of the connectivity correctly. Fully-Automatic Synapse Prediction and Validation on a Large Data Set.