Dynamic functional connectivity DFC obtained from resting state functional magnetic resonance imaging fMRI data has been shown to provide novel insights into brain function which may be obscured by static functional connectivity SFC. Further DFC and by implication how different brain regions may engage or disengage with each other over time has been shown to be behaviorally relevant and more predictive than SFC of behavioral performance and/or diagnostic status. DFC is not a directional entity and may capture neural synchronization. However directional interactions between different brain regions is another putative mechanism by which neural populations communicate. Accordingly static effective connectivity SEC has been explored as a means of characterizing such directional interactions. But investigation of its dynamic counterpart i.e. dynamic effective connectivity DEC is still in its infancy. Of particular note are methodological insufficiencies in identifying DEC configurations that are reproducible across time and subjects as well as a lack of understanding of the behavioral relevance of DEC obtained from resting state fMRI. In order to address these issues we employed a dynamic multivariate autoregressive MVAR model to estimate DEC. The method was first validated using simulations and then applied to resting state fMRI data obtained in-house N = 21 wherein we performed dynamic clustering of DEC matrices across multiple levels using adaptive evolutionary clustering AEC - spatial location time and subjects. We observed a small number of directional brain network configurations alternating between each other over time in a quasi-stable manner akin to brain microstates. The dominant and consistent DEC network patterns involved several regions including inferior and mid temporal cortex motor and parietal cortex occipital cortex as well as part of frontal cortex. The functional relevance of these DEC states were determined using meta-analyses and pertained mainly to memory and emotion but also involved execution and language. Finally a larger cohort of resting-state fMRI and behavioral data from the Human Connectome Project HCP N = 232 Q1-Q3 release was used to demonstrate that metrics derived from DEC can explain larger variance in 70 behaviors across different domains alertness cognition emotion and personality traits compared to SEC in healthy individuals. Multi-Level Clustering of Dynamic Directional Brain Network Patterns and Their Behavioral Relevance.