"Diffusion kurtosis imaging DKI is a diffusion MRI dMRI technique to quantify brain microstructural properties. While DKI measures are sensitive to tissue alterations they are also affected by signal alterations caused by imaging artifacts such as noise motion and Gibbs ringing. Consequently DKI often yields output parameter values e.g. mean kurtosis; MK that are implausible. These include implausible values that are outside of the range dictated by physics/biology and visually apparent implausible values that form unexpected discontinuities being too high or too low comparing with their neighborhood. These implausible values will introduce bias into any following data analyses e.g. between-population statistical computation. Existing studies have attempted to correct implausible DKI parameter values in multiple ways; however these approaches are not always effective. In this study we propose a novel method for detecting and correcting voxels with implausible values to enable improved DKI parameter estimation. In particular we focus on MK parameter estimation. We first characterize the relation between MK and alterations in the dMRI signal including diffusion weighted images DWIs and the baseline b0 images. This is done by calculating MK for a range of synthetic DWI or b0 for each voxel and generating curves MK-curve representing how alterations to the input dMRI signals affect the resulting output MK. We find that voxels with implausible MK values are more likely caused by artifacts in the b0 images than artifacts in DWIs with higher b-values. Accordingly two characteristic b0 values which define a range of synthetic b0 values that generate implausible MK values are identified on the MK-curve. Based on this characterization we propose an automatic approach for detection of voxels with implausible MK values by comparing a voxels original b0 signal to the identified two characteristic b0 values along with a correction strategy to replace the original b0 in each detected implausible voxel with a synthetic b0 value computed from the MK-curve. We evaluate the method on a DKI phantom dataset and dMRI datasets from the Human Connectome Project HCP and we compare the proposed correction method with other previously proposed correction methods. Results show that our proposed method is able to identify and correct most voxels with implausible DKI parameter values as well as voxels with implausible diffusion tensor parameter values." MK-curve - Characterizing the relation between mean kurtosis and alterations in the diffusion MRI signal.