Visuospatial neglect due to right hemisphere damage usually a stroke is a major cause of disability impairing the ability to perform a whole range of everyday life activities. Conventional and long-established methods for the rehabilitation of neglect like visual scanning training optokinetic stimulation or limb activation training have produced positive results with varying degrees of generalization to untrained tasks lasting from several minutes up to various months after training. Nevertheless some promising novel approaches to the remediation of left visuospatial neglect have emerged in the last decade. These new therapy methods can be broadly classified into four categories. First non-invasive brain stimulation techniques by means of transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS or transcranial direct current stimulation tDCS after a period of mainly diagnostic utilization are increasingly applied as neurorehabilitative tools. Second two classes of drugs dopaminergic and noradrenergic have been investigated for their potential effectiveness in rehabilitating neglect. Third prism adaptation treatment has been shown to improve several neglect symptoms consistently sometimes during longer periods of time. Finally virtual reality technologies hold new opportunities for the development of effective training techniques for neglect. They provide realistic rich and highly controllable training environments. In this paper the degree of effectiveness and the evidence gathered to support the therapeutic claims of these new approaches is reviewed and discussed. The conclusion is that for all these approaches there still is insufficient unbiased evidence to support their effectiveness. Further neglect rehabilitation research should focus on the maintenance of therapy results over time on a more functional evaluation of treatment effects on the design and execution of true replication studies and on the exploration of optimal combinations of treatments. Novel insights in the rehabilitation of neglect.