"Virtual reality strives to provide a user with an experience of a simulated world that feels as natural as the real world. Yet to induce this feeling sometimes it becomes necessary for technical reasons to deviate from a one-to-one correspondence between the real and the virtual world and to reorient or reposition the users viewpoint. Ideally users should not notice the change of the viewpoint to avoid breaks in perceptual continuity. Saccades the fast eye movements that we make in order to switch gaze from one object to another produce a visual discontinuity on the retina but this is not perceived because the visual system suppresses perception during saccades. As a consequence our perception fails to detect rotations of the visual scene during saccades. We investigated whether saccadic suppression of image displacement SSID can be used in an immersive virtual environment VE to unconsciously rotate and translate the observers viewpoint. To do this the scene changes have to be precisely time-locked to the saccade onset. We used electrooculography EOG for eye movement tracking and assessed the performance of two modified eye movement classification algorithms for the challenging task of online saccade detection that is fast enough for SSID. We investigated the sensitivity of participants to translations forward/backward and rotations in the transverse plane during trans-saccadic scene changes. We found that participants were unable to detect approximately 0.5m translations along the line of gaze and 5 rotations in the transverse plane during saccades with an amplitude of 15. If the user stands still our approach exploiting SSID thus provides the means to unconsciously change the users virtual position and/or orientation. For future research and applications exploiting SSID has the potential to improve existing redirected walking and change blindness techniques for unlimited navigation through arbitrarily-sized VEs by real walking." Subliminal Reorientation and Repositioning in Immersive Virtual Environments using Saccadic Suppression.