The spatial world is three dimensional 3D and humans and other animals move both horizontally and vertically within it. Extant neuroscientific studies have typically investigated spatial navigation on a horizontal 2D plane leaving much unknown about how 3D spatial information is represented in the brain. Specifically horizontal and vertical information may be encoded in the same or different neural structures with equal or unequal sensitivity. Here we investigated these possibilities using fMRI while participants were passively moved within a 3D lattice structure as if riding a rollercoaster. Multivoxel pattern analysis was used to test for the existence of information relating to where and in which direction participants were heading in this virtual environment. Behaviorally participants had similarly accurate memory for vertical and horizontal locations and the right anterior hippocampus HC expressed place information that was sensitive to changes along both horizontal and vertical axes. This is suggestive of isotropic 3D place encoding. In contrast participants indicated their heading direction faster and more accurately when they were heading in a tilted-up or tilted-down direction. This direction information was expressed in the right retrosplenial cortex and posterior HC and was only sensitive to vertical pitch which could reflect the importance of the vertical gravity axis as a reference frame. Overall our findings extend previous knowledge of how we represent the spatial world and navigate within it by taking into account the important third dimension.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT The spatial world is 3D. We can move horizontally across surfaces but also vertically going up slopes or stairs. Little is known about how the brain supports representations of 3D space. A key question is whether horizontal and vertical information is equally well represented. Here we measured fMRI response patterns while participants moved within a virtual 3D environment and found that the anterior hippocampus HC expressed location information that was sensitive to the vertical and horizontal axes. In contrast information about heading direction found in retrosplenial cortex and posterior HC favored the vertical axis perhaps due to gravity effects. These findings provide new insights into how we represent our spatial 3D world and navigate within it. Multivoxel Pattern Analysis Reveals 3D Place Information in the Human Hippocampus.