"Augmented reality AR applications link real with virtual image data in order to increase their information content. In medicine they are especially useful for education and for supporting the interpretation of three-dimensional 3D image data. Simulators are used to train risky or expensive procedures. In the AR application EchoCom2 a 3D surface model of the human heart is linked with echocardiographic volume data sets. The 3D echocardiographic data sets are registered with the heart model to synchronize its temporal and spatial orientation. The heart model together with an animated ultrasound sector represents a reference scenario which displays the currently selected cutting plane within the echocardiographic volume data set. Modifications of the cutting plane within the echocardiographic data are transferred simultaneously and in real time to the reference scenario. The AR application is used as a simulator to train two-dimensional echocardiographic examinations and as an orientation and navigation aid for the exploration of 3D echocardiographic data sets. Beginners in echocardiography have only a rudimentary conception of the spatial relationship between the actual ultrasound image and the 3D anatomy of the heart. They are unable to translate multiple two-dimensional slices into a coherent 3D mental image of the heart. In EchoCom2 the trainee can interactively explore the 3D heart model and the registered 3D echocardiographic data sets by the animated ultrasound sector whose position is controlled by an electromagnetic orientation and position system EPOS. The data from the EPOS are used to calculate the echocardiographic images that are analogue to the position of the animated ultrasound sector. EchoCom2 is also used to support the interpretation of 3D echocardiographic data sets. The analysis of 3D echocardiographic data has to be done during a post processing. Defining the exact position of a cutting plane within the volume is difficult due to the lack of a standardized representation the independence of the cutting plane of any transducer position and the possibility to calculate an indefinite number of views. The simultaneous representation of the current cutting plane both in the volume data and in the heart model enables the examiner ad hoc to recognize its position and the visualized structures." Augmented reality in echocardiography. A new method of computer-assisted training and image processing using virtual and real three-dimensional data sets.