Population imaging studies generate data for developing and implementing personalised health strategies to prevent or more effectively treat disease. Large prospective epidemiological studies acquire imaging for pre-symptomatic populations. These studies enable the early discovery of alterations due to impending disease and enable early identification of individuals at risk. Such studies pose new challenges requiring automatic image analysis. To date few large-scale population-level cardiac imaging studies have been conducted. One such study stands out for its sheer size careful implementation and availability of top quality expert annotation; the UK Biobank UKB. The resulting massive imaging datasets targeting ca. 100000 subjects has put published approaches for cardiac image quantification to the test. In this paper we present and evaluate a cardiac magnetic resonance CMR image analysis pipeline that properly scales up and can provide a fully automatic analysis of the UKB CMR study. Without manual user interactions our pipeline performs end-to-end image analytics from multi-view cine CMR images all the way to anatomical and functional bi-ventricular quantification. All this while maintaining relevant quality controls of the CMR input images and resulting image segmentations. To the best of our knowledge this is the first published attempt to fully automate the extraction of global and regional reference ranges of all key functional cardiovascular indexes from both left and right cardiac ventricles for a population of 20000 subjects imaged at 50 time frames per subject for a total of one million CMR volumes. In addition our pipeline provides 3D anatomical bi-ventricular models of the heart. These models enable the extraction of detailed information of the morphodynamics of the two ventricles for subsequent association to genetic omics lifestyle habits exposure information and other information provided in population imaging studies. We validated our proposed CMR analytics pipeline against manual expert readings on a reference cohort of 4620 subjects with contour delineations and corresponding clinical indexes. Our results show broad significant agreement between the manually obtained reference indexes and those automatically computed via our framework. 80.67% of subjects were processed with mean contour distance of less than 1\xa0pixel and 17.50% with mean contour distance between 1 and 2\xa0pixels. Finally we compare our pipeline with a recently published approach reporting on UKB data and based on deep learning. Our comparison shows similar performance in terms of segmentation accuracy with respect to human experts. Quantitative CMR population imaging on 20000 subjects of the UK Biobank imaging study: LV/RV quantification pipeline and its evaluation.