Human ventral occipital temporal cortex contains clusters of neurons that show domain-preferring responses during visual perception. Recent studies have reported that some of these clusters show surprisingly similar domain selectivity in congenitally blind participants performing nonvisual tasks. An important open question is whether these functional similarities are driven by similar innate connections in blind and sighted groups. Here we addressed this question focusing on the parahippocampal gyrus PHG a region that is selective for large objects and scenes. Based on the assumption that patterns of long-range connectivity shape local computation we examined whether domain selectivity in PHG is driven by similar structural connectivity patterns in the two populations. Multiple regression models were built to predict the selectivity of PHG voxels for large human-made objects from white matter WM connectivity patterns in both groups. These models were then tested using independent data from participants with similar visual experience two sighted groups and using data from participants with different visual experience blind and sighted groups. Strikingly the WM-based predictions between blind and sighted groups were as successful as predictions between two independent sighted groups. That is the functional selectivity for large objects of a PHG voxel in a blind participant could be accurately predicted by its WM pattern using the connection-to-function model built from the sighted group data and vice versa. Regions that significantly predicted PHG selectivity were located in temporal and frontal cortices in both sighted and blind populations. These results show that the large-scale network driving domain selectivity in PHG is independent of vision.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT Recent studies have reported intriguingly similar domain selectivity in sighted and congenitally blind individuals in regions within the ventral visual cortex. To examine whether these similarities originate from similar innate connectional roots we investigated whether the domain selectivity in one population could be predicted by the structural connectivity pattern of the other. We found that the selectivity for large objects of a PHG voxel in a blind participant could be predicted by its structural connectivity pattern using the connection-to-function model built from the sighted group data and vice versa. These results reveal that the structural connectivity underlying domain selectivity in the PHG is independent of visual experience providing evidence for nonvisual representations in this region. Domain Selectivity in the Parahippocampal Gyrus Is Predicted by the Same Structural Connectivity Patterns in Blind and Sighted Individuals.