"Independent component analysis ICA has been used for detecting and removing the eye artifacts conventionally. However in this research it was used not only for detecting the eye artifacts but also for detecting the brain-produced signals of two conceptual danger and information category words. In this cross-sectional research electroencephalography EEG signals were recorded using Micromed and 19-channel helmet devices in unipolar mode wherein Cz electrode was selected as the reference electrode. In the first part of this research the statistical community test case included four men and four women who were 25-30 years old. In the designed task three groups of traffic signs were considered in which two groups referred to the concept of danger and the third one referred to the concept of information. In the second part the three volunteers two men and one woman who had the best results were chosen from among eight participants. In the second designed task direction arrows up down left and right were used. For the 2/8 volunteers in the rest times very high-power alpha waves were observed from the back of the head; however in the thinking times they were different. According to this result alpha waves for changing the task from thinking to rest condition took at least 3 s for the two volunteers and it was at most 5 s until they went to the absolute rest condition. For the 7/8 volunteers the danger and information signals were well classified; these differences for the 5/8 volunteers were observed in the right hemisphere and for the other three volunteers the differences were observed in the left hemisphere. For the second task simulations showed that the best classification accuracies resulted when the time window was 2.5 s. In addition it also showed that the features of the autoregressive AR-15 model coefficients were the best choices for extracting the features. For all the states of neural network except hardlim discriminator function the classification accuracies were almost the same and not very different. Linear discriminant analysis LDA in comparison with the neural network yielded higher classification accuracies. ICA is a suitable algorithm for recognizing of the words concept and its place in the brain. Achieved results from this experiment were the same compared with the results from other methods such as functional magnetic resonance imaging and methods based on the brain signals EEG in the vowel imagination and covert speech. Herein the highest classification accuracy was obtained by extracting the target signal from the output of the ICA and extracting the features of coefficients AR model with time interval of 2.5 s. Finally LDA resulted in the highest classification accuracy more than 60%." ICA-Based Imagined Conceptual Words Classification on EEG Signals.