Confidence judgements are a central tool in metacognition research. In a typical task participants first perform perceptual first-order decisions and then rate their confidence in these decisions. The relationship between confidence and first-order accuracy is taken as a measure of metacognitive performance. Confidence is often assumed to stem from decision-monitoring processes alone but processes that co-occur with the first-order decision may also play a role in confidence formation. In fact some recent studies have revealed that directly manipulating motor regions in the brain or the time of first-order decisions relative to second-order ones affects confidence judgements. This finding suggests that confidence could be informed by a readout of reaction times in addition to decision-monitoring processes. To test this possibility we assessed the contribution of response-related signals to confidence and in particular to metacognitive performance i.e. a measure of the adequacy of these confidence judgements. In human volunteers we measured the effect of making an overt vs. covert decision as well as the effect of pairing an action to the stimulus about which the first-order decision is made. Against our expectations we found no differences in overall confidence or metacognitive performance when first-order responses were covert as opposed to overt. Further actions paired to visual stimuli presented led to higher confidence ratings but did not affect metacognitive performance. These results suggest that confidence ratings do not always incorporate motor information.Significance statement To measure metacognition or the ability to monitor one\s own thoughts experimental tasks often require human volunteers to first make a perceptual decision "first-order task" and then rate their confidence in their own decision "second-order task". In this paradigm both first and second-order information could in principle influence confidence judgements. But only the latter is truly metacognitive. To determine whether confidence is a valid metacognitive measure we compared confidence ratings between two conditions: with overt responses where participants provided both first- and second- order responses; and with covert responses where participants reported their confidence in a decision that they had not executed. Removing first-order decisions did not affect confidence which validates confidence as an introspective measure. Response-related signals increase confidence but not metacognitive performances.