Current evidence suggests that two spatially distinct neuroanatomical networks the dorsal attention network DAN and the default mode network DMN support externally and internally oriented cognition respectively and are functionally regulated by a third frontoparietal control network FPC. Interactions among these networks contribute to normal variations in cognitive functioning and to the aberrant affective profiles present in certain clinical conditions such as major depression. Nevertheless their links to non-clinical variations in affective functioning are still poorly understood. To address this issue we used fMRI to measure the intrinsic functional interactions among these networks in a sample of predominantly younger women N=162 from the Human Connectome Project. Consistent with the previously documented dichotomous motivational orientations i.e. withdrawal versus approach associated with sadness versus anger we hypothesized that greater sadness would predict greater DMN rather than DAN functional dominance whereas greater anger would predict the opposite. Overall there was evidence of greater DAN rather than DMN functional dominance but this pattern was modulated by current experience of specific negative emotions as well as subclinical depressive and anxiety symptoms. Thus greater levels of currently experienced sadness and subclinical depression independently predicted weaker DAN functional dominance i.e. weaker DAN-FPC functional connectivity likely reflecting reduced goal-directed attention towards the external perceptual environment. Complementarily greater levels of currently experienced anger and subclinical anxiety predicted greater DAN functional dominance i.e. greater DAN-FPC functional connectivity and for anxiety only also weaker DMN-FPC coupling. Our findings suggest that distinct affective states and subclinical mood symptoms have dissociable neural signatures reflective of the symbiotic relationship between cognitive processes and emotional states. Inter-individual differences in the experience of negative emotion predict variations in functional brain architecture.