The relationship between stroke topography and functional outcome has largely been studied with binary manual lesion segmentations. However stroke topography may be better characterized by continuous variables capable of reflecting the severity of ischemia which may be more pertinent for long-term outcome. Diffusion Tensor Imaging DTI constitutes a powerful means of quantifying the degree of acute ischemia and its potential relation to functional outcome. Our aim was to investigate whether using more clinically pertinent imaging parameters with powerful machine learning techniques could improve prediction models and thus provide valuable insight on critical brain areas important for long-term outcome. Eighty-seven thrombolyzed patients underwent a DTI sequence at 24\u202fh post-stroke. Functional outcome was evaluated at 3 months post-stroke with the modified Rankin Score and was dichotomized into good mRS\u202f\u202f2 and poor mRS\u202f>\u202f2 outcome. We used support vector machines SVM to classify patients into good vs. poor outcome and evaluate the accuracy of different models built with fractional anisotropy mean diffusivity axial diffusivity radial diffusivity asymmetry maps and lesion segmentations in combination with lesion volume age recanalization status and thrombectomy treatment. SVM classifiers built with axial diffusivity maps yielded the best accuracy of all imaging parameters median IQR accuracy\u202f=\u202f82.8 79.3-86.2% compared to that of lesion segmentations 76.7 73.3-82.8% when predicting 3-month functional outcome. The analysis revealed a strong contribution of clinical variables notably - in descending order - lesion volume thrombectomy treatment and recanalization status in addition to the deep white matter at the crossroads of major white matter tracts represented by brain regions where model weights were highest. Axial diffusivity is a more appropriate imaging marker to characterize stroke topography for predicting long-term outcome than binary lesion segmentations. Multivariate prediction of functional outcome using lesion topography characterized by acute diffusion tensor imaging.