"Diffusion MRI tractography provides a non-invasive modality to examine the human retinofugal projection which consists of the optic nerves optic chiasm optic tracts the lateral geniculate nuclei LGN and the optic radiations. However the pathway has several anatomic features that make it particularly challenging to study with tractography including its location near blood vessels and bone-air interface at the base of the cerebrum crossing fibers at the chiasm somewhat-tortuous course around the temporal horn via Meyers Loop and multiple closely neighboring fiber bundles. To date these unique complexities of the visual pathway have impeded the development of a robust and automated reconstruction method using tractography. To overcome these challenges we develop a novel fully automated system to reconstruct the retinofugal visual pathway from high-resolution diffusion imaging data. Using multi-shell high angular resolution diffusion imaging HARDI data we reconstruct precise fiber orientation distributions FODs with high order spherical harmonics SPHARM to resolve fiber crossings which allows the tractography algorithm to successfully navigate the complicated anatomy surrounding the retinofugal pathway. We also develop automated algorithms for the identification of ROIs used for fiber bundle reconstruction. In particular we develop a novel approach to extract the LGN region of interest ROI based on intrinsic shape analysis of a fiber bundle computed from a seed region at the optic chiasm to a target at the primary visual cortex. By combining automatically identified ROIs and FOD-based tractography we obtain a fully automated system to compute the main components of the retinofugal pathway including the optic tract and the optic radiation. We apply our method to the multi-shell HARDI data of 215 subjects from the Human Connectome Project HCP. Through comparisons with post-mortem dissection measurements we demonstrate the retinotopic organization of the optic radiation including a successful reconstruction of Meyers loop. Then using the reconstructed optic radiation bundle from the HCP cohort we construct a probabilistic atlas and demonstrate its consistency with a post-mortem atlas. Finally we generate a shape-based representation of the optic radiation for morphometry analysis." Automated retinofugal visual pathway reconstruction with multi-shell HARDI and FOD-based analysis.