Understanding the connecting structure of brain network is the basis to reveal the principle of the brain function and elucidate the mechanism of brain diseases. Trans-synaptic tracing with neurotropic viruses has become one of the most effective technologies to dissect the neural circuits. Although the retrograde trans-synaptic tracing for analyzing the input neural networks with recombinant rabies and pseudorabies virus has been broadly applied in neuroscience viral tools for analyzing the output neural networks are still lacking. The recombinant vesicular stomatitis virus VSV has been used for the mapping of synaptic outputs. However several drawbacks including high neurotoxicity and rapid lethality in experimental animals hinder its application in long-term studies of the structure and function of neural networks. To overcome these limitations we generated a recombinant VSV with replication-related N gene mutation VSV-NR7A and examined its cytotoxicity and efficiency of trans-synaptic spreading. We found that by comparison with the wild-type tracer of VSV the NR7A mutation endowed the virus lower rate of propagation and cytotoxicity in vitro as well as significantly reduced neural inflammatory responses in vivo and much longer animal survival when it was injected into the nucleus of the mice brain. Besides the spreading of the attenuated VSV was delayed when injected into the VTA. Importantly with the reduced toxicity and extended animal survival the number of brain regions that was trans-synaptically labeled by the mutant VSV was more than that of the wild-type VSV. These results indicated that the VSV-NR7A could be a promising anterograde tracer that enables researchers to explore more downstream connections of a given brain region and observe the anatomical structure and the function of the downstream circuits over a longer time window. Our work could provide an improved tool for structural and functional studies of neurocircuit. A mutant vesicular stomatitis virus with reduced cytotoxicity and enhanced anterograde trans-synaptic efficiency.