Driving while intoxicated remains a major public health hazard. Driving is a complex task involving simultaneous recruitment of multiple cognitive functions. The investigators studied the neural substrates of driving and their response to different blood alcohol concentrations BACs using functional magnetic resonance imaging fMRI and a virtual reality driving simulator. We used independent component analysis ICA to isolate spatially independent and temporally correlated driving-related brain circuits in 40 healthy adult moderate social drinkers. Each subject received three individualized separate single-blind doses of beverage alcohol to produce BACs of 0.05% moderate 0.10% high or 0% placebo. 3 T fMRI scanning and continuous behavioral measurement occurred during simulated driving. Brain function was assessed and compared using both ICA and a conventional general linear model GLM analysis. ICA results replicated and significantly extended our previous 1.5T study Calhoun et al. 2004a: Neuropsychopharmacology 29:2097-2017. GLM analysis revealed significant dose-related functional differences complementing ICA data. Driving behaviors including opposite white line crossings and mean speed independently demonstrated significant dose-dependent changes. Behavior-based factors also predicted a frontal-basal-temporal circuit to be functionally impaired with alcohol dosage across baseline scaled good versus poorly performing drivers. We report neural correlates of driving behavior and found dose-related spatio-temporal disruptions in critical driving-associated regions including the superior middle and orbito frontal gyri anterior cingulate primary/supplementary motor areas basal ganglia and cerebellum. Overall results suggest that alcohol especially at high doses causes significant impairment of both driving behavior and brain functionality related to motor planning and control goal directedness error monitoring and memory. Alcohol dose effects on brain circuits during simulated driving: an fMRI study.