"In comparison to other mammals humans are not especially strong swift or supple. Nevertheless despite these apparent physical limitations we are among Natures most superbly well-adapted endurance runners. Paradoxically however notwithstanding this evolutionary-bestowed proficiency running-related injuries and Overuse syndromes in particular are widely pervasive. The term coordination is similarly ubiquitous within contemporary coaching conditioning and rehabilitation cultures. Various theoretical models of coordination exist within the academic literature. However the specific neural and biological underpinnings of running coordination and the nature of their integration remain poorly elaborated. Conventionally running is considered a mundane readily mastered coordination skill. This illusion of coordinative simplicity however is founded upon a platform of immense neural and biological complexities. This extensive complexity presents extreme organizational difficulties yet simultaneously provides a multiplicity of viable pathways through which the computational and mechanical burden of running can be proficiently dispersed amongst expanded networks of conditioned neural and peripheral tissue collaborators. Learning to adequately harness this available complexity however is a painstakingly slowly emerging practice-driven process greatly facilitated by innate evolutionary organizing principles serving to constrain otherwise overwhelming complexity to manageable proportions. As we accumulate running experiences persistent plastic remodeling customizes networked neural connectivity and biological tissue properties to best fit our unique neural and architectural idiosyncrasies and personal histories: thus neural and peripheral tissue plasticity embeds coordination habits. When however coordinative processes are compromised-under the integrated influence of fatigue and/or accumulative cycles of injury overuse misuse and disuse-this spectrum of available choice dysfunctionally contracts and our capacity to safely disperse the mechanical stress of running progressively diminishes. Now the running work burden falls increasingly on reduced populations of collaborating components. Accordingly our capacity to effectively manage dissipate and accommodate running-imposed stress diminishes and vulnerability to Overuse syndromes escalates. Awareness of the deep underpinnings of running coordination enhances conceptual clarity thereby informing training and rehabilitation insights designed to offset the legacy of excessive or progressively accumulating exposure to running-imposed mechanical stress." The Robust Running Ape: Unraveling the Deep Underpinnings of Coordinated Human Running Proficiency.