"We introduce the CDRP Concatenated Diagnostic-Relapse Prognostic architecture for multi-task deep learning that incorporates a clinical algorithm e.g. a risk stratification schema to improve prognostic profiling. We present the first application to survival prediction in High-Risk HR Neuroblastoma from transcriptomics data a task that studies from the MAQC consortium have shown to remain the hardest among multiple diagnostic and prognostic endpoints predictable from the same dataset. To obtain a more accurate risk stratification needed for appropriate treatment strategies CDRP combines a first component CDRP-A synthesizing a diagnostic task and a second component CDRP-N dedicated to one or more prognostic tasks. The approach leverages the advent of semi-supervised deep learning structures that can flexibly integrate multimodal data or internally create multiple processing paths. CDRP-A is an autoencoder trained on gene expression on the HR/non-HR risk stratification by the Childrens Oncology Group obtaining a 64-node representation in the bottleneck layer. CDRP-N is a multi-task classifier for two prognostic endpoints i.e. Event-Free Survival EFS and Overall Survival OS. CDRP-A provides the HR embedding input to the CDRP-N shared layer from which two branches depart to model EFS and OS respectively. To control for selection bias CDRP is trained and evaluated using a Data Analysis Protocol DAP developed within the MAQC initiative. CDRP was applied on Illumina RNA-Seq of 498 Neuroblastoma patients HR: 176 from the SEQC study 12464 Entrez genes and on Affymetrix Human Exon Array expression profiles 17450 genes of 247 primary diagnostic Neuroblastoma of the TARGET NBL cohort. On the SEQC HR patients CDRP achieves Matthews Correlation Coefficient MCC 0.38 for EFS and MCC = 0.19 for OS in external validation improving over published SEQC models. We show that a CDRP-N embedding is indeed parametrically associated to increasing severity and the embedding can be used to better stratify patients survival." Distillation of the clinical algorithm improves prognosis by multi-task deep learning in high-risk Neuroblastoma.