In this paper we propose a highly accurate and fast spelling system that employs multi-modal electroencephalography-electrooculography EEG-EOG signals and visual feedback technology. Over the last 20 years various types of speller systems have been developed in brain-computer interface and EOG/eye-tracking research; however these conventional systems have a tradeoff between the spelling accuracy or decoding and typing speed. Healthy users and physically challenged participants in particular may become exhausted quickly; thus there is a need for a speller system with fast typing speed while retaining a high level of spelling accuracy. In this paper we propose the first hybrid speller system that combines EEG and EOG signals with visual feedback technology so that the user and the speller system can act cooperatively for optimal decision-making. The proposed spelling system consists of a classic row-column event-related potential ERP speller an EOG command detector and visual feedback modules. First the online ERP speller calculates classification probabilities for all candidate characters from the EEG epochs. Second characters are sorted by their probability and the characters with the highest probabilities are highlighted as visual feedback within the row-column spelling layout. Finally the user can actively select the character as the target by generating an EOG command. The proposed system shows 97.6% spelling accuracy and an information transfer rate of 39.6 13.2 bits/min across 20 participants. In our extended experiment we redesigned the visual feedback and minimized the number of channels four channels in order to enhance the speller performance and increase usability. Most importantly a new weighted strategy resulted in 100% accuracy and a 57.8 23.6 bits/min information transfer rate across six participants. This paper demonstrates that the proposed system can provide a reliable communication channel for practical speller applications and may be used to supplement existing systems. A High Performance Spelling System based on EEG-EOG Signals With Visual Feedback.