"The genetic component of many common traits is associated with the gene expression and several variants act as expression quantitative loci regulating the gene expression in a tissue specific manner. In this work we applied tissue-specific cis-eQTL gene expression prediction models on the genotype of 808 samples including controls subjects with mild cognitive impairment and patients with Alzheimers Disease. We then dissected the imputed transcriptomic profiles by means of different unsupervised and supervised machine learning approaches to identify potential biological associations. Our analysis suggests that unsupervised and supervised methods can provide complementary information which can be integrated for a better characterization of the underlying biological system. In particular a variational autoencoder representation of the transcriptomic profiles followed by a support vector machine classification has been used for tissue-specific gene prioritizations. Interestingly the achieved gene prioritizations can be efficiently integrated as a feature selection step for improving the accuracy of deep learning classifier networks. The identified gene-tissue information suggests a potential role for inflammatory and regulatory processes in gut-brain axis related tissues. In line with the expected low heritability that can be apportioned to eQTL variants we were able to achieve only relatively low prediction capability with deep learning classification models. However our analysis revealed that the classification power strongly depends on the network structure with recurrent neural networks being the best performing network class. Interestingly cross-tissue analysis suggests a potentially greater role of models trained in brain tissues also by considering dementia-related endophenotypes. Overall the present analysis suggests that the combination of supervised and unsupervised machine learning techniques can be used for the evaluation of high dimensional omics data." "Integration of Machine Learning Methods to Dissect Genetically Imputed Transcriptomic Profiles in Alzheimers Disease."