Hysteresis the discrepancy in forward and reverse pathways of state transitions is observed during changing levels of consciousness. Identifying the underlying mechanism of hysteresis phenomena in the brain will enhance the ability to understand monitor and control state transitions related to consciousness. We hypothesized that hysteresis in brain networks shares the same underlying mechanism of hysteresis as other biological and non-biological networks. In particular we hypothesized that the principle of explosive synchronization which can mediate abrupt state transitions would be critical to explaining hysteresis in the brain during conscious state transitions. We analyzed high-density electroencephalogram EEG that was acquired in healthy human volunteers during conscious state transitions induced by the general anesthetics sevoflurane or ketamine. We developed a novel method to monitor the temporal evolution of EEG networks in a parameter space which consists of the strength and topography of EEG-based networks. Furthermore we studied conditions of explosive synchronization in anatomically informed human brain network models. We identified hysteresis in the trajectory of functional brain networks during state transitions. The model study and empirical data analysis explained various hysteresis phenomena during the loss and recovery of consciousness in a principled way: 1 more potent anesthetics induce a larger hysteresis; 2 a larger range of EEG frequencies facilitates transitions into unconsciousness and impedes the return of consciousness; 3 hysteresis of connectivity is larger than that of EEG power; and 4 the structure and strength of functional brain networks reconfigure differently during the loss vs. recovery of consciousness. We conclude that the hysteresis phenomena observed during the loss and recovery of consciousness are generic network features. Furthermore the state transitions are grounded in the same principle as state transitions in complex non-biological networks especially during perturbation. These findings suggest the possibility of predicting and modulating hysteresis of conscious state transitions in large-scale brain networks. Mechanisms of hysteresis in human brain networks during transitions of consciousness and unconsciousness: Theoretical principles and empirical evidence.