Non-coding RNAs ncRNAs play crucial roles in multiple fundamental biological processes such as post-transcriptional gene regulation and are implicated in many complex human diseases. Mostly ncRNAs function by interacting with corresponding RNA-binding proteins. The research on ncRNAprotein interaction is the key to understanding the function of ncRNA. However the biological experiment techniques for identifying RNAprotein interactions RPIs are currently still expensive and time-consuming. Due to the complex molecular mechanism of ncRNAprotein interaction and the lack of conservation for ncRNA especially for long ncRNA lncRNA the prediction of ncRNAprotein interaction is still a challenge. Deep learning-based models have become the state-of-the-art in a range of biological sequence analysis problems due to their strong power of feature learning. In this study we proposed a hierarchical deep learning framework RPITER to predict RNAprotein interaction. For sequence coding we improved the conjoint triad feature CTF coding method by complementing more primary sequence information and adding sequence structure information. For model design RPITER employed two basic neural network architectures of convolution neural network CNN and stacked auto-encoder SAE. Comprehensive experiments were performed on five benchmark datasets from PDB and NPInter databases to analyze and compare the performances of different sequence coding methods and prediction models. We found that CNN and SAE deep learning architectures have powerful fitting abilities for the k-mer features of RNA and protein sequence. The improved CTF coding method showed performance gain compared with the original CTF method. Moreover our designed RPITER performed well in predicting RNAprotein interaction RPI and could outperform most of the previous methods. On five widely used RPI datasets RPI369 RPI488 RPI1807 RPI2241 and NPInter RPITER obtained A U C of 0.821 0.911 0.990 0.957 and 0.985 respectively. The proposed RPITER could be a complementary method for predicting RPI and constructing RPI network which would help push forward the related biological research on ncRNAs and lncRNAs. RPITER: A Hierarchical Deep Learning Framework for ncRNAProtein Interaction Prediction.