Registration is one of the most difficult problems in augmented reality AR systems. In this paper a simple registration method using natural features based on the projective reconstruction technique is proposed. This method consists of two steps: embedding and rendering. Embedding involves specifying four points to build the world coordinate system on which a virtual object will be superimposed. In rendering the Kanade-Lucas-Tomasi KLT feature tracker is used to track the natural feature correspondences in the live video. The natural features that have been tracked are used to estimate the corresponding projective matrix in the image sequence. Next the projective reconstruction technique is used to transfer the four specified points to compute the registration matrix for augmentation. This paper also proposes a robust method for estimating the projective matrix where the natural features that have been tracked are normalized translation and scaling and used as the input data. The estimated projective matrix will be used as an initial estimate for a nonlinear optimization method that minimizes the actual residual errors based on the Levenberg-Marquardt LM minimization method thus making the results more robust and stable. The proposed registration method has three major advantages: 1 It is simple as no predefined fiducials or markers are used for registration for either indoor and outdoor AR applications. 2 It is robust because it remains effective as long as at least six natural features are tracked during the entire augmentation and the existence of the corresponding projective matrices in the live video is guaranteed. Meanwhile the robust method to estimate the projective matrix can obtain stable results even when there are some outliers during the tracking process. 3 Virtual objects can still be superimposed on the specified areas even if some parts of the areas are occluded during the entire process. Some indoor and outdoor experiments have been conducted to validate the performance of this proposed method. Registration using natural features for augmented reality systems.