Elevated stress perception and depression commonly co-occur suggesting that they share a common neurobiology. Cortical thickness of the rostral middle frontal gyrus RMFG a region critical for executive function has been associated with depression- and stress-related phenotypes. Here we examined whether RMFG cortical thickness is associated with these phenotypes in a large family-based community sample. RMFG cortical thickness was estimated using FreeSurfer among participants n\u2009=\u2009879 who completed the ongoing Human Connectome Project. Depression-related phenotypes i.e. sadness positive affect and perceived stress were assessed via self-report. After accounting for sex age ethnicity average whole-brain cortical thickness twin status and familial structure RMFG thickness was positively associated with perceived stress and sadness and negatively associated with positive affect at small effect sizes accounting for 0.2-2.4% of variance; p-fdr: 0.0051-0.1900. Perceived stress was uniquely associated with RMFG thickness after accounting for depression-related phenotypes. Further among siblings discordant for perceived stress those reporting higher perceived stress had increased RMFG thickness P\u2009=\u20094\u2009\u200910-7 . Lastly RMFG thickness perceived stress depressive symptoms and positive affect were all significantly heritable with evidence of shared genetic and environmental contributions between self-report measures. Stress perception and depression share common genetic environmental and neural correlates. Variability in RMFG cortical thickness may play a role in stress-related depression although effects may be small in magnitude. Prospective studies are required to examine whether variability in RMFG thickness may function as a risk factor for stress exposure and/or perception and/or arises as a consequence of these phenotypes. Perceived stress is associated with increased rostral middle frontal gyrus cortical thickness: a family-based and discordant-sibling investigation.