"Estimation of individuals cognitive behavioral and demographic CBD variables based on MRI has attracted much research interest in the past decade and effective machine learning techniques are of great importance for these estimations. Partial least squares regression PLSR is an attractive machine learning technique that can accommodate both single- and multi-label learning in a simple framework while its potential for MRI-based estimations of CBD variables remains to be explored. In this study we systemically investigated the performance of PLSR in MRI-based estimations of individuals CBD variables especially its performance in simultaneous estimation of multiple CBD variables multi-label learning. We performed the study on the dataset included in the HCP S1200 release. Resting state functional connections RSFCs were used as features and a total of 10 CBD variables e.g. age gender grip strength and picture vocabulary were estimated. The results showed that PLSR performed well in both single- and multi-label learning. In fact the present estimations were better than those reported in literatures as indicated by stronger correlations between the estimated and actual CBD variables as well as high gender classification accuracy 97.8% in this study. Moreover the RSFCs that contributed to the estimations exhibited strong correlations with the CBD variable estimated that is PLSR algorithm automatically selected the RSFCs closely related to one CBD variable to establish predictive models for the variable. Besides the estimation accuracies based on RSFCs among 100 200 and 300 regions of interest ROIs were higher than those based on RSFCs among 15 25 and 50 ROIs; the estimation accuracies based on RSFCs evaluated using partial correlation were higher than those based on RSFCs evaluated using full correlation. In addition to the aforementioned virtues PLSR is efficient in model training and testing and it is simple and easy to use. Therefore PLSR can be a favorable choice for future MRI-based estimations of CBD variables." Partial Least Squares Regression Performs Well in MRI-Based Individualized Estimations.