"Recent advances in neuroprostheses provide us with promising ideas of how to improve the quality of life in people suffering from impaired motor functioning of upper and lower limbs. Especially for patients after spinal cord injury SCI futuristic devices that are controlled by thought via brain-computer interfaces BCIs might be of tremendous help in managing daily tasks and restoring at least some mobility. However there are certain problems arising when trying to implement BCI technology especially in such a heterogenous patient group. A plethora of processes occurring after the injuries change the brains structure as well as its functionality collectively referred to as neuroplasticity. These changes are very different between individuals leading to an increasing interest to reveal the exact changes occurring after SCI. In this study we investigated event-related potentials ERPs derived from electroencephalography EEG signals recorded during the attempted execution and imagination of hand and foot movements in healthy subjects and patients with SCI. As ERPs and especially early components are of interest for BCI research we aimed to investigate differences between 22 healthy volunteers and 7 patients mean age = 51.86 SD = 15.49 suffering from traumatic or non-traumatic SCI since 2-314 months mean = 11657 SD = 12555. We aimed to explore differences in ERP responses as well as the general presence of component that might be of interest to further consider for incorporation into BCI research. In order to match the real-life situation of BCIs for controlling neuroprostheses we worked on small trial numbers <25 only. We obtained a focal potential over Pz in ten healthy participants but in none of the patients after lenient artifact rejection. The potential was characterized by a high amplitude it correlated with the repeated movements 6 times in 6 s and in nine subjects it significantly differed from a resting condition. Furthermore there are strong arguments against possible confounding factors leading to the potentials appearance. This phenomenon occurring when movements are repeatedly conducted might represent a possible potential to be used in futuristic BCIs and further studies should try to investigate the replicability of its appearance." High Amplitude EEG Motor Potential during Repetitive Foot Movement: Possible Use and Challenges for Futuristic BCIs That Restore Mobility after Spinal Cord Injury.