Most common methods that directly show macro- or microscopic anatomy of the brain usually require the removal of the organ from the neurocranium. However the brain can be revealed in situ by using proper sectioning techniques. Our aim was to both improve the cryosectioning method test its limits and create a high-resolution macro-anatomical image series of a Beagle brain which at the time of the study did not exist. A two-year-old female Beagle has been scanned with CT and MRI ante and post mortem then the arteries of the head were filled with red resin. After freezing to -80C a neurocranium block was created and was embedded into a water-gelatin mix. Using a special milling device and a DSLR camera 1112 consecutive RGB-color cryosections were made with a 100 m layer thickness and captured in high resolution 300 dpi 24-bit color and pixel size was 19.5 x 19.5 m. Image post-processing was done with Adobe Photoshop CS3 and Thermo Scientific Amira 6.0 softwares and as a result of the proper alignment and coregistration visualization and comparing was possible with all the applied imaging modalities CT MRI cryosectioning in any arbitrary plane. Surface models from the arteries veins brain and skull were also generated after segmentation in the same coordinate system giving a unique opportunity for comparing the two-dimensional and three-dimensional anatomy. This is the first study which focuses directly to this high-definition multimodal visualization of the canine brain and it provides the most accurate results compared to previous cryosectioning studies as using an improved method higher image quality more detailed image proper color fidelity and lower artefact formation were achieved. Based on the methodology we described it can serve as a base for future multimodal CT MR augmented- or virtual reality imaging atlases for medical educational and scientific purposes. MRI CT and high resolution macro-anatomical images with cryosectioning of a Beagle brain: Creating the base of a multimodal imaging atlas.