To determine the effects of support and proprioceptive afferentation on characteristics of the visual-manual tracking VMT we used a model of weightlessness - horizontal "dry" immersion. Altogether 30 subjects who stayed in immersion bath from 5 to 7 days were examined to evaluate the accuracy of VMT in tasks to pursue the jerky saccadically and smooth linear pendular and circular movement of a point visual stimulus. Examinations were performed before during and after immersion using electrooculography to record eye movements and a joystick to record hand movements with a biological visual feedback - one of the two visible stimuli on the screen matched the current angle of the joystick handle. Computerized visual stimulation programs were presented to subject using a virtual reality glasses. We analyzed time amplitude and velocity characteristics of the visual and manual tracking VT and MT including efficiency ratio eVT and eMT and gain gVT and gMT as ratios of respectively amplitudes and velocities of eyes/hand movements to the stimulus movement. eVT was significantly decreased in comparison with baseline all the time while subject lied in the immersion bath and until R+4 day after immersion eMT was significantly decreased only on I-1 and I-3 days in immersion. gVT significantly differed from baseline only on I-3 and I-6 days in immersion and R + 1 day after immersion. We found no significant changes in gMT. Evaluations of the vestibular function VF were performed before and after immersion using videooculography approach. We analyzed statical torsional otolith-cervical-ocular reflex OCOR dynamical vestibular-cervical-ocular reactions VCOR spontaneous eye movements SpEM the accuracy of perception of subjective visual vertical SVV. After immersion 47% of subjects had significant decrease of OCOR with a simultaneous significant increase of VCOR on 37% of subjects as well as significant changes in accuracy of perception of SVV which correlated with changes in OCOR. We found correlation between characteristics of the VT and MT between characteristics of the VF and VT and found no correlation between VF and MT. It was found that removal of the support and minimization of the proprioceptive afferentation has a greater impact upon accuracy of the VT then accuracy of the MT. The effects of support-proprioceptive deprivation on visual-manual tracking and vestibular function.