"The heart of autism is existence by oneself. It is being talking and acting by oneself. Talking by oneself is not talking to oneself but talking at others. Its purpose is not exchanging or hearing words. Its purpose is sending words to another person. If being completely by themselves is autistics experience of their existence then they may have no need for language. And there is no language development in about half of all autistics. For autistics who do have language if they are mostly sending out words and are only sometimes exchanging or hearing words then another persons language has little or no effect on them. Without language from outside persons as a guide autistics language becomes strange and free from the normal body motions gestures that come with language. So strange language and uncommon body motions with that language are two of autisms chief signs. Autistics are unnerved by change. So they keep their behaviors in a narrow range and do them over and over with no connection to other persons purposes. A narrow range of behaviors done over and over for no seeming purpose is another chief sign of autism. Because young boys and girls get to being talking and acting by themselves when they come down with autism they no longer seem to have any idea of what is going on between themselves and other persons. So when boys and girls get autism they frequently do or say strange and surprising things with other persons. The knowledge of what to do and say with other persons comes as abstractions. This papers one hypothesis is that autistic persons have no abstractions because the development of their deep feelings has not gone far enough to let abstractions come into existence. By acting or talking without the support of abstractions autistic persons have a hard time with language learning living and loving in relation to other persons or to society. Autism comes from stopping the development of a babys deep feelings within the first six months after birth. The development of deep feelings may be started again by a special operation named deep-feeling contact. Body-to-body touching is never necessary for making deep-feeling contact. As the development of his or her deep feelings goes forward the autistic persons abstractions come into existence. Then language learning living and loving become much simpler for him or her." Deep-feeling development gives autistics abstractions: when a young person has no abstractions his or her thoughts or behaviors frequently seem autistic.