Resting-state functional MRI rsfMRI is a useful technique for investigating the functional organization of human gray-matter in neuroscience and neuropsychiatry. Nevertheless most studies have demonstrated the functional connectivity and/or task-related functional activity in the gray-matter. White-matter functional networks have been investigated in healthy subjects. Schizophrenia has been hypothesized to be a brain disorder involving insufficient or ineffective communication associated with white-matter abnormalities. However previous studies have mainly examined the structural architecture of white-matter using MRI or diffusion tensor imaging and failed to uncover any dysfunctional connectivity within the white-matter on rsfMRI. The current study used rsfMRI to evaluate white-matter functional connectivity in a large cohort of ninety-seven schizophrenia patients and 126 healthy controls. Ten large-scale white-matter networks were identified by a cluster analysis of voxel-based white-matter functional connectivity and classified into superficial middle and deep layers of networks. Evaluation of the spontaneous oscillation of white-matter networks and the functional connectivity between them showed that patients with schizophrenia had decreased amplitudes of low-frequency oscillation and increased functional connectivity in the superficial perception-motor networks. Additionally we examined the interactions between white-matter and gray-matter networks. The superficial perception-motor white-matter network had decreased functional connectivity with the cortical perception-motor gray-matter networks. In contrast the middle and deep white-matter networks had increased functional connectivity with the superficial perception-motor white-matter network and the cortical perception-motor gray-matter network. Thus we presumed that the disrupted association between the gray-matter and white-matter networks in the perception-motor system may be compensated for through the middle-deep white-matter networks which may be the foundation of the extensively disrupted connections in schizophrenia. White-matter functional networks changes in patients with schizophrenia.