"During the last years it has been established that the prefrontal and posterior parietal brain lobes which are mostly related to intelligence have many connections to cerebellum. However there is a limited research investigating cerebellums relationship with cognitive processes. In this study the network of cerebellum was analyzed in order to investigate its overall organization in individuals with low and high fluid corrected Intelligence Quotient IQ. Functional magnetic resonance imaging fMRI data were selected from 136 subjects in resting-state from the Human Connectome Project HCP database and were further separated into two IQ groups composed of 69 low-IQ and 67 high-IQ subjects. Cerebellum was parcellated into 28 lobules/ROIs per subject using a standard cerebellum anatomical atlas. Thereafter correlation matrices were constructed by computing Pearsons correlation coefficients between the average BOLD time-series for each pair of ROIs inside the cerebellum. By computing conventional graph metrics small-world network properties were verified using the weighted clustering coefficient and the characteristic path length for estimating the trade-off between segregation and integration. In addition a connectivity metric was computed for extracting the average cost per network. The concept of the Minimum Spanning Tree MST was adopted and implemented in order to avoid methodological biases in graph comparisons and retain only the strongest connections per network. Subsequently six global and three local metrics were calculated in order to retrieve useful features concerning the characteristics of each MST. Moreover the local metrics of degree and betweenness centrality were used to detect hubs i.e. nodes with high importance. The computed set of metrics gave rise to extensive statistical analysis in order to examine differences between low and high-IQ groups as well as between all possible gender-based group combinations. Our results reveal that both male and female networks have small-world properties with differences in females especially in higher IQ females indicative of higher neural efficiency in cerebellum. There is a trend toward the same direction in men but without significant differences. Finally three lobules showed maximum correlation with the median response time in low-IQ individuals implying that there is an increased effort dedicated locally by this population in cognitive tasks." Resting-State Functional Connectivity and Network Analysis of Cerebellum with Respect to corrected IQ and Gender.