Research in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ALS suggests that executive dysfunction a prevalent cognitive feature of the disease is associated with abnormal structural connectivity and white matter integrity. In this exploratory study we investigated the white matter constructs of executive dysfunction and attempted to detect structural abnormalities specific to cognitively impaired ALS patients. Eighteen ALS patients and 22 age and education matched healthy controls underwent magnetic resonance imaging on a 4.7 Tesla scanner and completed neuropsychometric testing. ALS patients were categorized into ALS cognitively impaired ALSci n\u2009=\u20099 and ALS cognitively competent ALScc n\u2009=\u20095 groups. Tract-based spatial statistics and connectomics were used to compare white matter integrity and structural connectivity of ALSci and ALScc patients. Executive function performance was correlated with white matter FA and network metrics within the ALS group. Executive function performance in the ALS group correlated with global and local network properties as well as FA in regions throughout the brain with a high predilection for the frontal lobe. ALSci patients displayed altered local connectivity and structural integrity in these same frontal regions that correlated with executive dysfunction. Our results suggest that executive dysfunction in ALS is related to frontal network disconnectivity which potentially mediates domain-specific or generalized cognitive impairment depending on the degree of global network disruption. Furthermore reported co-localization of decreased network connectivity and diminished white matter integrity suggests white matter pathology underlies this topological disruption. We conclude that executive dysfunction in ALSci is associated with frontal and global network disconnectivity underlined by diminished white matter integrity. Hum Brain Mapp 38:1249-1268 2017. White matter structural network abnormalities underlie executive dysfunction in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.