Modulation of sensorimotor rhythms SMR was suggested as a control signal for brain-computer interfaces BCI. Yet there is a population of users estimated between 10 to 50% not able to achieve reliable control and only about 20% of users achieve high 80-100% performance. Predicting performance prior to BCI use would facilitate selection of the most feasible system for an individual thus constitute a practical benefit for the user and increase our knowledge about the correlates of BCI control. In a recent study we predicted SMR-BCI performance from psychological variables that were assessed prior to the BCI sessions and BCI control was supported with machine-learning techniques. We described two significant psychological predictors namely the visuo-motor coordination ability and the ability to concentrate on the task. The purpose of the current study was to replicate these results thereby validating these predictors within a neurofeedback based SMR-BCI that involved no machine learning.Thirty-three healthy BCI novices participated in a calibration session and three further neurofeedback training sessions. Two variables were related with mean SMR-BCI performance: 1 a measure for the accuracy of fine motor skills i.e. a trade for a person\s visuo-motor control ability; and 2 subject\s "attentional impulsivity". In a linear regression they accounted for almost 20% in variance of SMR-BCI performance but predictor 1 failed significance. Nevertheless on the basis of our prior regression model for sensorimotor control ability we could predict current SMR-BCI performance with an average prediction error of M = 12.07%. In more than 50% of the participants the prediction error was smaller than 10%. Hence psychological variables played a moderate role in predicting SMR-BCI performance in a neurofeedback approach that involved no machine learning. Future studies are needed to further consolidate or reject the present predictors. Visuo-motor coordination ability predicts performance with brain-computer interfaces controlled by modulation of sensorimotor rhythms SMR.