Diffusion weighted magnetic resonance imaging DW-MRI is interpreted as a quantitative method that is sensitive to tissue microarchitecture at a millimeter scale. However the sensitization is dependent on acquisition sequences e.g. diffusion time gradient strength etc. and susceptible to imaging artifacts. Hence comparison of quantitative DW-MRI biomarkers across field strengths including different scanners hardware performance and sequence design considerations is a challenging area of research. We propose a novel method to estimate microstructure using DW-MRI that is robust to scanner difference between 1.5T and 3T imaging. We propose to use a null space deep network NSDN architecture to model DW-MRI signal as fiber orientation distributions FOD to represent tissue microstructure. The NSDN approach is consistent with histologically observed microstructure on previously acquired ex vivo squirrel monkey dataset and scan-rescan data. The contribution of this work is that we incorporate identical dual networks IDN to minimize the influence of scanner effects via scan-rescan data. Briefly our estimator is trained on two datasets. First a histology dataset was acquired on three squirrel monkeys with corresponding DW-MRI and confocal histology 512 independent voxels. Second 37 control subjects from the Baltimore Longitudinal Study of Aging 67-95 y/o were identified who had been scanned at 1.5T and 3T scanners b-value of 700 s/mm2 voxel resolution at 2.2mm 30-32 gradient volumes with an average interval of 4 years standard deviation 1.3 years. After image registration we used paired white matter WM voxels for 17 subjects and 440 histology voxels for training and 20 subjects and 72 histology voxels for testing. We compare the proposed estimator with super-resolved constrained spherical deconvolution CSD and a previously presented regression deep neural network DNN. NSDN outperformed CSD and DNN in angular correlation coefficient ACC 0.81 versus 0.28 and 0.46 mean squared error MSE 0.001 versus 0.003 and 0.03 and general fractional anisotropy GFA 0.05 versus 0.05 and 0.09. Further validation and evaluation with contemporaneous imaging are necessary but the NSDN is promising avenue for building understanding of microarchitecture in a consistent and device-independent manner. Harmonizing 1.5T/3T Diffusion Weighted MRI through Development of Deep Learning Stabilized Microarchitecture Estimators.