"The cerebellum is involved in some forms of motor coordination and learning and in cognitive and emotional functions. To elucidate the functions of the cerebellum it is important to unravel the detailed connections of the cerebellar neurons. Although the cerebellar neural circuit structure is generally conserved among vertebrates it is not clear whether the cerebellum receives and processes the same or similar information in different vertebrate species. Here we performed monosynaptic retrograde tracing with recombinant rabies viruses RV to identify the afferent connections of the zebrafish cerebellar neurons. We used a G-deleted RV that expressed GFP. The virus was also pseudotyped with EnvA an envelope protein of avian sarcoma and leucosis virus ALSV-A. For the specific infection of cerebellar neurons we expressed the RV glycoprotein G gene and the envelope protein TVA which is the receptor for EnvA in Purkinje cells PCs or granule cells GCs using the promoter for aldolase Ca aldoca or cerebellin 12 cbln12 respectively. When the virus infected PCs in the aldoca line GFP was detected in the PCs presynaptic neurons including GCs and neurons in the inferior olivary nuclei IOs which send climbing fibers CFs. These observations validated the RV tracing method in zebrafish. When the virus infected GCs in the cbln12 line GFP was again detected in their presynaptic neurons including neurons in the pretectal nuclei the nucleus lateralis valvulae NLV the central gray CG the medial octavolateralis nucleus MON and the descending octaval nucleus DON. GFP was not observed in these neurons when the virus infected PCs in the aldoca line. These precerebellar neurons generally agree with those reported for other teleost species and are at least partly conserved with those in mammals. Our results demonstrate that the RV system can be used for connectome analyses in zebrafish and provide fundamental information about the cerebellar neural circuits which will be valuable for elucidating the functions of cerebellar neural circuits in zebrafish." Tracing of Afferent Connections in the Zebrafish Cerebellum Using Recombinant Rabies Virus.