Temporal lobe epilepsy often leads to hippocampal sclerosis and persistent cognitive deficits including difficulty with learning and memory. Hippocampal theta oscillations are critical in optimizing hippocampal function and facilitating plasticity. We hypothesized that pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus would disrupt oscillations and behavioral performance and that electrical neuromodulation to entrain theta would improve cognition specifically in injured rats. Rats received a pilocarpine n=30 or saline injection n=27 and unilateral bi-polar electrodes were implanted into the medial septum and hippocampus the following day. Hippocampal and septal theta were recorded in a Plexiglas box over the first week following implantation. Control and pilocarpine-treated rats were split into stimulation continuous 7.7Hz 80A 1ms pulse width and non-stimulation groups for behavioral analysis. Continuous stimulation was initiated one-minute prior to and throughout an object exploration task post-injury day seven and again for each of six trials on the Barnes maze post-injury days 12-14. There was a significant reduction in hippocampal theta power p<0.05 and percentage of time oscillating in theta p<0.05. In addition there was a significant decrease in object exploration in rats post-pilocarpine p<0.05 and an impairment in spatial learning. Specifically pilocarpine-treated rats were more likely to use random search strategies p<0.001 and had an increase in latency to find the hidden platform p<0.05 on the Barnes maze. Stimulation of the medial septum at 7.7Hz in pilocarpine-treated rats resulted in performance similar to shams in both the object recognition and Barnes maze tasks. Stimulation of sham rats resulted in impaired object exploration p<0.05 with no difference in Barnes maze latency or strategy. In conclusion pilocarpine-induced seizures diminished hippocampal oscillations and impaired performance in both an object exploration and a spatial memory task in pilocarpine-treated rats. Theta stimulation at 7.7Hz improved behavioral outcome on the Barnes maze task; this improvement in function was not related to a general cognitive enhancement as shams did not benefit from stimulation. Therefore stimulation of the medial septum represents an exciting target to improve behavioral outcome in patients with epilepsy. Stimulation of the medial septum improves performance in spatial learning following pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus.