Fueled by a buoyant economy popular attitudes and demands and parallel progress in transferable technical and biological areas neurosurgery has enjoyed a remarkable quarter of a century of progress. Developmental trends in the discipline have included the following: 1 a refinement of preoperative definition of the structural substrate 2 miniaturization of operative corridors 3 reduction of operative trauma 4 increased effectiveness at the target site and 5 incorporation of improved technical adjuvants and physical operative tools into treatment protocols. In particular the computer has become a formidable ally in diagnostic and surgical events. Trends in technical development indicate that we are entering an exciting era of advanced surgery of the human cerebrum which is heralded by the following: 1 current developments in areas of imaging sensors and visualization; 2 new devices for localization and navigation; 3 new capabilities for action at the target point; and 4 innovative concepts related to advanced operative venues. Imaging has provided structurally based surgical maps which now are being given the new dimension of function in complex and integrated formats for preoperative planning and intraoperative tactical direction. Cerebral localization and navigation based on these advances promise to provide further refinement to the field of stereotactic neurosurgery as linked systems are superseded by more flexible nonlinked methodologies in functionally defined volume-oriented navigational databases. Target point action now includes not only ablative capabilities through micro-operative methods and the use of stereotactically directed high-energy forms but also the emergence of restorative capabilities through applications of principles of genetic engineering in the areas of molecular and cellular neurosurgery. Complex dedicated and self-contained operative venues will be required to optimize the emergence and development of these computer-oriented micro/stereotactic capabilities which appear to be unavoidably required as locales for the practice and development of virtual reality-based stations for operative rehearsal simulation training and ultimately enhancement of operative events through robotic interfaces. Primary impetus for progress has relied upon new combinations of technologies disciplines and industries. Philosophical and practical problems include the spectrum of availability of these methods to the population at large the training of individuals to properly administer these methods defining the acceptable envelope of expertise and maintaining suitable delivery and progress while containing spiraling costs. Advanced neurological surgery and the use and development of high-technology adjuvants require a robust economy that has a populace willing to invest in the luxury of such developments. The current socioeconomic situation is fragile from the standpoint of both economics and attitudes of the patients and health care providers with diversion of economic resources redistribution of funding bases modification of patient referrals practice styles and service attitudes undermining progress. Economic pressures have brought high-technology methods under great scrutiny regarding their effectiveness and cost-effectiveness. Reform proposals have specifically targeted technology-oriented services and the Office of Technology Assessment has recommended increasing the use of managed care providers who look to information on cost-effectiveness and clinical practice guidelines to establish efficient management strategies and issue "report cards." Although the premise is laudable and "gimmickry" needs to be identified it might be argued that such scrutiny and control might be overbearing and overused impeding appropriate delivery and progress. The Richard C. Schneider Lecture. New dimensions of neurosurgery in the realm of high technology: possibilities practicalities realities.