In order to characterize the neural signature of a motor imagery MI task the present study investigates for the first time the oscillation characteristics including both of the time-frequency measurements event related spectral perturbation and intertrial coherence ITC underlying the variations in the temporal measurements event related potentials ERP directly related to a MI task. We hypothesize that significant variations in both of the time-frequency measurements underlie the specific changes in the ERP directly related to MI. For the MI task we chose a simple everyday task throwing a tennis ball that does not require any particular motor expertise set within the controlled virtual reality scenario of a tennis court. When compared to the rest condition a consistent long-lasting negative fronto-central ERP wave was accompanied by significant changes in both time frequency measurements suggesting long-lasting cortical activity reorganization. The ERP wave was characterized by two peaks at about 300 ms N300 and 1000 ms N1000. The N300 component was centrally localized on the scalp and was accompanied by significant phase consistency in the delta brain rhythms in the contralateral central scalp areas. The N1000 component spread wider centrally and was accompanied by a significant power decrease or event related desynchronization in low beta brain rhythms localized in fronto-precentral and parieto-occipital scalp areas and also by a significant power increase or event related synchronization in theta brain rhythms spreading fronto-centrally. During the transition from N300 to N1000 a contralateral alpha mu as well as post-central and parieto-theta rhythms occurred. The visual representation of movement formed in the minds of participants might underlie a top-down process from the fronto-central areas which is reflected by the amplitude changes observed in the fronto-central ERPs and by the significant phase synchrony in contralateral fronto-central delta and contralateral central mu to parietal theta presented here. Long-Lasting Cortical Reorganization as the Result of Motor Imagery of Throwing a Ball in a Virtual Tennis Court.