"Research into hippocampal self-regulation abilities may help determine the clinical significance of hippocampal hyperactivity throughout the pathophysiological continuum of Alzheimers disease. In this study we aimed to identify the effects of amyloid- peptide 42 amyloid-42 and phosphorylated tau on the patterns of functional connectomics involved in hippocampal downregulation. We identified 48 cognitively unimpaired participants 22 with elevated CSF amyloid- peptide 42 levels 15 with elevated CSF phosphorylated tau levels mean age of 62.705  4.628 years from the population-based Alzheimers and Families study with baseline MRI CSF biomarkers APOE genotyping and neuropsychological evaluation. We developed a closed-loop real-time functional MRI neurofeedback task with virtual reality and tailored it for training downregulation of hippocampal subfield cornu ammonis 1 CA1. Neurofeedback performance score cognitive reserve score hippocampal volume number of apolipoprotein 4 alleles and sex were controlled for as confounds in all cross-sectional analyses. First using voxel-wise multiple regression analysis and controlling for CSF biomarkers we identified the effect of healthy ageing on eigenvector centrality a measure of each voxels overall influence based on iterative whole-brain connectomics during hippocampal CA1 downregulation. Then controlling for age we identified the effects of abnormal CSF amyloid-42 and phosphorylated tau levels on eigenvector centrality during hippocampal CA1 downregulation. Across subjects our main findings during hippocampal downregulation were: i in the absence of abnormal biomarkers age correlated with eigenvector centrality negatively in the insula and midcingulate cortex and positively in the inferior temporal gyrus; ii abnormal CSF amyloid-42 <1098 correlated negatively with eigenvector centrality in the anterior cingulate cortex and primary motor cortex; and iii abnormal CSF phosphorylated tau levels >19.2 correlated with eigenvector centrality positively in the ventral striatum anterior cingulate and somatosensory cortex and negatively in the precuneus and orbitofrontal cortex. During resting state functional MRI similar eigenvector centrality patterns in the cingulate had previously been associated to CSF biomarkers in mild cognitive impairment and dementia patients. Using the developed closed-loop paradigm we observed such patterns which are characteristic of advanced disease stages during a much earlier presymptomatic phase. In the absence of CSF biomarkers our non-invasive interactive adaptive and gamified neuroimaging procedure may provide important information for clinical prognosis and monitoring of therapeutic efficacy. We have released the developed paradigm and analysis pipeline as open-source software to facilitate replication studies." Earliest amyloid and tau deposition modulate the influence of limbic networks during closed-loop hippocampal downregulation.