Neural signals recorded at different scales contain information about environment and behavior and have been used to control Brain Machine Interfaces with varying degrees of success. However a direct comparison of their efficacy has not been possible due to different recording setups tasks species etc. To address this we implanted customized arrays having both microelectrodes and electrocorticogram ECoG electrodes in the primary visual cortex of 2 female macaque monkeys and also recorded electroencephalogram EEG while they viewed a variety of naturalistic images and parametric gratings. Surprisingly ECoG had higher information and decodability than all other signals. Combining a few ECoG electrodes allowed more accurate decoding than combining a much larger number of microelectrodes. Control analyses showed that higher decoding accuracy of ECoG compared with local field potential was not because of differences in low-level visual features captured by them but instead because of larger spatial summation of the ECoG. Information was high in the 30-80 Hz range and at lower frequencies. Information in different frequencies and scales was nonredundant. These results have strong implications for Brain Machine Interface applications and for study of population representation of visual stimuli.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT Electrophysiological signals captured across scales by different recording electrodes are regularly used for Brain Machine Interfaces but the information content varies due to electrode size and location. A systematic comparison of their efficiency for Brain Machine Interfaces is important but technically challenging. Here we recorded simultaneous signals across four scales: spikes local field potential electrocorticogram ECoG and EEG and compared their information and decoding accuracy for a large variety of naturalistic stimuli. We found that ECoGs were highly informative and outperformed other signals in information content and decoding accuracy. Electrocorticogram ECoG Is Highly Informative in Primate Visual Cortex.