"Subthalamic deep brain stimulation DBS for Parkinsons disease PD may modulate chronometric and instrumental aspects of choice behaviour including motor inhibition decisional slowing and value sensitivity. However it is not well known whether subthalamic DBS affects more complex aspects of decision-making such as the influence of subjective estimates of uncertainty on choices. In this study 38 participants with PD played a virtual casino prior to subthalamic DBS whilst on medication and again 3-months postoperatively whilst on stimulation. At the group level there was a small but statistically significant decrease in impulsivity postoperatively as quantified by the Barratt Impulsiveness Scale BIS. The gambling behaviour of participants bet increases slot machine switches and double or nothing gambles was associated with this self-reported measure of impulsivity. However there was a large variance in outcome amongst participants and we were interested in whether individual differences in subjective estimates of uncertainty specifically volatility were related to differences in pre- and postoperative impulsivity. To examine these individual differences we fit a computational model the Hierarchical Gaussian Filter HGF to choices made during slot machine game play as well as a simpler reinforcement learning model based on the Rescorla-Wagner formalism. The HGF was superior in accounting for the behaviour of our participants suggesting that participants incorporated beliefs about environmental uncertainty when updating their beliefs about gambling outcome and translating these beliefs into action. A specific aspect of subjective uncertainty the participants estimate of the tendency of the slot machines winning probability to change volatility increased subsequent to DBS. Additionally the decision temperature of the response model decreased post-operatively implying greater stochasticity in the belief-to-choice mapping of participants. Model parameter estimates were significantly associated with impulsivity; specifically increased uncertainty was related to increased postoperative impulsivity. Moreover changes in these parameter estimates were significantly associated with the maximum post-operative change in impulsivity over a six month follow up period. Our findings suggest that impulsivity in PD patients may be influenced by subjective estimates of uncertainty environmental volatility and implicate a role for the subthalamic nucleus in the modulation of outcome certainty. Furthermore our work outlines a possible approach to characterising those persons who become more impulsive after subthalamic DBS an intervention in which non-motor outcomes can be highly variable." "Subjective estimates of uncertainty during gambling and impulsivity after subthalamic deep brain stimulation for Parkinsons disease."