Enhanced resolution of 7\xa0T magnetic resonance imaging MRI scanners has considerably advanced our knowledge of structure and function in human and animal brains. Post-industrialized countries are particularly prone to an ever-increasing number of ageing individuals and ageing-associated neurodegenerative diseases. Neurodegenerative diseases are associated with volume loss in the affected brain. MRI diagnoses and monitoring of subtle volume changes in the ageing/diseased brains have the potential to become standard diagnostic tools. Even with the superior resolution of 7\xa0T MRI scanners the microstructural changes comprising cell types cell numbers and cellular processes are still undetectable. Knowledge of origin nature and progression for microstructural changes are necessary to understand pathogenetic stages in the relentless neurodegenerative diseases as well as to develop therapeutic tools that delay or stop neurodegenerative processes at their earliest stage. We illustrate the gap in resolution by comparing the identical regions of the post-mortem in situ 7 T MR images virtual autopsy or virtopsy with the histological observations in serial sections through the same brain. We also described the protocols and limitations associated with these comparisons as well as the necessity of supercomputers and data management for "Big data". Analysis of neuron and/or glial number by using a body of mathematical tools and guidelines stereology is time-consuming cumbersome and still restricted to trained human investigators. Development of tools based on machine learning ML and artificial intelligence AI could considerably accelerate studies on localization onset and progression of neuron loss. Finally these observations could disentangle the mechanisms of volume loss into stages of reversible atrophy and/or irreversible fatal cell death. This AI- and ML-based cooperation between virtopsy and histology could bridge the present gap between virtual reality and neuropathology. It could also culminate in the creation of an imaging-associated comprehensive database. This database would include genetic clinical epidemiological and technical aspects that could help to alleviate or even stop the adverse effects of neurodegenerative diseases on affected individuals their families and society. The role of artificial intelligence and machine learning in harmonization of high-resolution post-mortem MRI virtopsy with respect to brain microstructure.