The focus of research using technological innovations such as robotic devices has been on interventions to improve upper extremity function in neurologic populations particularly patients with stroke. There is a growing body of evidence describing rehabilitation programs using various types of supportive/assistive and/or resistive robotic and virtual reality-enhanced devices to improve outcomes for patients with neurologic disorders. The most promising approaches are task-oriented based on current concepts of motor control/learning and practice-induced neuroplasticity. Based on this evidence we describe application and feasibility of virtual reality-enhanced robotics integrated with current concepts in orthopaedic rehabilitation shifting from an impairment-based focus to inclusion of more intense task-specific training for patients with upper extremity disorders specifically emphasizing the wrist and hand. The purpose of this paper is to describe virtual reality-enhanced rehabilitation robotic devices review evidence of application in patients with upper extremity deficits related to neurologic disorders and suggest how this technology and task-oriented rehabilitation approach can also benefit patients with orthopaedic disorders of the wrist and hand. We will also discuss areas for further research and development using a task-oriented approach and a commercially available haptic robotic device to focus on training of grasp and manipulation tasks. Implications for Rehabilitation There is a growing body of evidence describing rehabilitation programs using various types of supportive/assistive and/or resistive robotic and virtual reality-enhanced devices to improve outcomes for patients with neurologic disorders. The most promising approaches using rehabilitation robotics are task-oriented based on current concepts of motor control/learning and practice-induced neuroplasticity. Based on the evidence in neurologic populations virtual reality-enhanced robotics may be integrated with current concepts in orthopaedic rehabilitation shifting from an impairment-based focus to inclusion of more intense task-specific training for patients with UE disorders specifically emphasizing the wrist and hand. Clinical application of a task-oriented approach may be accomplished using commercially available haptic robotic device to focus on training of grasp and manipulation tasks. Rehabilitation robotics for the upper extremity: review with new directions for orthopaedic disorders.