Metabolism of drugs affects their absorption distribution efficacy excretion and toxicity profiles. Metabolism is routinely assessed experimentally using recombinant enzymes human liver microsome and animal models. Unfortunately these experiments are expensive time-consuming and often extrapolate poorly to humans because they fail to capture the full breadth of metabolic reactions observed in vivo. As a result metabolic pathways leading to the formation of toxic metabolites are often missed during drug development giving rise to costly failures. To address some of these limitations computational metabolism models can rapidly and cost-effectively predict sites of metabolism-the atoms or bonds which undergo enzymatic modifications-on thousands of drug candidates thereby improving the likelihood of discovering metabolic transformations forming toxic metabolites. However current computational metabolism models are often unable to predict the specific metabolites formed by metabolism at certain sites. Identification of reaction type is a key step toward metabolite prediction. Phase I enzymes which are responsible for the metabolism of more than 90% of FDA approved drugs catalyze highly diverse types of reactions and produce metabolites with substantial structural variability. Without knowledge of potential metabolite structures medicinal chemists cannot differentiate harmful metabolic transformations from beneficial ones. To address this shortcoming we propose a system for simultaneously labeling sites of metabolism and reaction types by classifying them into five key reaction classes: stable and unstable oxidations dehydrogenation hydrolysis and reduction. These classes unambiguously identify 21 types of phase I reactions which cover 92.3% of known reactions in our database. We used this labeling system to train a neural network model of phase I metabolism on a literature-derived data set encompassing 20\u202f736 human phase I metabolic reactions. Our model Rainbow XenoSite was able to identify reaction-type specific sites of metabolism with a cross-validated accuracy of 97.1% area under the receiver operator curve. Rainbow XenoSite with five-color and combined output is available for use free and online through our secure server at http://swami.wustl.edu/xenosite/p/phase1_rainbow. The Metabolic Rainbow: Deep Learning Phase I Metabolism in Five Colors.