"There is both clinical and neuroanatomical variability at the single-subject level in Alzheimers disease complicating our understanding of brain-behaviour relationships and making it challenging to develop neuroimaging biomarkers to track disease severity progression and response to treatment. Prior work has shown that both group-level atrophy in clinical dementia syndromes and complex neurological symptoms in patients with focal brain lesions localize to brain networks. Here we use a new technique termed atrophy network mapping to test the hypothesis that single-subject atrophy maps in patients with a clinical diagnosis of Alzheimers disease will also localize to syndrome-specific and symptom-specific brain networks. First we defined single-subject atrophy maps by comparing cortical thickness in each Alzheimers disease patient versus a group of age-matched cognitively normal subjects across two independent datasets total Alzheimers disease patients = 330. No more than 42% of Alzheimers disease patients had atrophy at any given location across these datasets. Next we determined the network of brain regions functionally connected to each Alzheimers disease patients location of atrophy using seed-based functional connectivity in a large n\u2009=\u20091000 normative connectome. Despite the heterogeneity of atrophied regions at the single-subject level we found that 100% of patients with a clinical diagnosis of Alzheimers disease had atrophy functionally connected to the same brain regions in the mesial temporal lobe precuneus cortex and angular gyrus. Results were specific versus control subjects and replicated across two independent datasets. Finally we used atrophy network mapping to define symptom-specific networks for impaired memory and delusions finding that our results matched symptom networks derived from patients with focal brain lesions. Our study supports atrophy network mapping as a method to localize clinical cognitive and neuropsychiatric symptoms to brain networks providing insight into brain-behaviour relationships in patients with dementia." "Network localization of clinical cognitive and neuropsychiatric symptoms in Alzheimers disease."