"The co-registration of eye tracking and electroencephalography provides a holistic measure of ongoing cognitive processes. Recently fixation-related potentials have been introduced to quantify the neural activity in such bi-modal recordings. Fixation-related potentials are time-locked to fixation onsets just like event-related potentials are locked to stimulus onsets. Compared to existing electroencephalography-based brain-machine interfaces that depend on visual stimuli fixation-related potentials have the advantages that they can be used in free unconstrained viewing conditions and can also be classified on a single-trial level. Thus fixation-related potentials have the potential to allow for conceptually different brain-machine interfaces that directly interpret cortical activity related to the visual processing of specific objects. However existing research has investigated fixation-related potentials only with very restricted and highly unnatural stimuli in simple search tasks while participants body movements were restricted. We present a study where we relieved many of these restrictions while retaining some control by using a gaze-contingent visual search task. In our study participants had to find a target object out of 12 complex and everyday objects presented on a screen while the electrical activity of the brain and eye movements were recorded simultaneously. Our results show that our proposed method for the classification of fixation-related potentials can clearly discriminate between fixations on relevant non-relevant and background areas. Furthermore we show that our classification approach generalizes not only to different test sets from the same participant but also across participants. These results promise to open novel avenues for exploiting fixation-related potentials in electroencephalography-based brain-machine interfaces and thus providing a novel means for intuitive human-machine interaction." Toward FRP-Based Brain-Machine Interfaces-Single-Trial Classification of Fixation-Related Potentials.