Adolescence is a time of continued cognitive and emotional evolution occurring with continuing brain development involving synaptic pruning and cortical myelination. The hypothesis of this study is that heavy myelination occurs in cortical regions with relatively direct predetermined circuitry supporting unimodal sensory or motor functions and shows a steep developmental slope during adolescence 12-21\xa0years until young adulthood 22-35\xa0years when further myelination decelerates. By contrast light myelination occurs in regions with highly plastic circuitry supporting complex functions and follows a delayed developmental trajectory. In support of this hypothesis cortical myelin content was estimated and harmonized across publicly available datasets provided by the National Consortium on Alcohol and NeuroDevelopment in Adolescence NCANDA and the Human Connectome Project HCP. The cross-sectional analysis of 226 no-to-low alcohol drinking NCANDA adolescents revealed relatively steeper age-dependent trajectories of myelin growth in unimodal primary motor cortex and flatter age-dependent trajectories in multimodal mid/posterior cingulate cortices. This pattern of continued myelination showed smaller gains when the same analyses were performed on 686 young adults of the HCP cohort free of neuropsychiatric diagnoses. Critically a predicted correlation between a motor task and myelin content in motor or cingulate cortices was found in the NCANDA adolescents supporting the functional relevance of this imaging neurometric. Furthermore the regional trajectory slopes were confirmed by performing longitudinally consistent analysis of cortical myelin. In conclusion coordination of myelin content and circuit complexity continues to develop throughout adolescence contributes to performance maturation and may represent active cortical development climaxing in young adulthood. Regional growth trajectories of cortical myelination in adolescents and young adults: longitudinal validation and functional correlates.