The influence of global BOLD fluctuations on resting state functional connectivity in fMRI data remains a topic of debate with little consensus. In this study we assessed the effects of global signal regression GSR on effective connectivity within and between resting state networks RSNs - as estimated with dynamic causal modelling DCM for resting state fMRI rsfMRI. DCM incorporates a forward generative model that quantifies the contribution of different types of noise including global measurement noise effective connectivity and neurovascular processes to functional connectivity measurements. DCM analyses were applied to two different designs; namely longitudinal and cross-sectional designs. In the modelling of longitudinal designs we considered four extensive longitudinal resting state fMRI datasets with a total number of 20 subjects. In the analysis of cross-sectional designs we used rsfMRI data from 361 subjects from the Human Connectome Project. We hypothesized that 1 GSR would have no discernible impact on effective connectivity estimated with DCM and 2 GSR would be reflected in the parameters representing global measurement noise. Additionally we performed comparative analyses of information gain with and without GSR. Our results showed negligible to small effects of GSR on effective connectivity within small separately estimated RSNs. However although the effect sizes were small there was substantial to conclusive evidence for an effect of GSR on connectivity parameters. For between-network connectivity we found two important effects: the effect of GSR on between-network effective connectivity averaged over all connections was negligible to small while the effect of GSR on individual connections was non-negligible. In the cross-sectional but not in the longitudinal data some connections showed substantial to conclusive evidence for an effect of GSR. Contrary to our expectations we found either no effect in the longitudinal designs or a non-specific cross-sectional design effect of GSR on parameters characterising global measurement noise. Data without GSR were found to be more informative than data with GSR; however in small resting state networks the precision of posterior estimates was greater after GSR. In conclusion GSR is a minor concern in DCM studies; however quantitative interpretation of between-network connections as opposed to average between-network connectivity and noise parameters should be treated with some caution. The Kullback-Leibler divergence of the posterior from the prior i.e. information gain - together with the precision of posterior estimates - might offer a useful measure to assess the appropriateness of GSR in resting state fMRI. The effect of global signal regression on DCM estimates of noise and effective connectivity from resting state fMRI.