Schizophrenia is a complex mental disorder with disorganized communication among large-scale brain networks as demonstrated by impaired resting-state functional connectivity rsFC. Individual rsFC studies however vary greatly in their methods and findings. We searched for consistent patterns of network dysfunction in schizophrenia by using a coordinate-based meta-analysis. Fifty-six seed-based voxel-wise rsFC datasets from 52 publications 2115 patients and 2297 healthy controls were included in this meta-analysis. Then coordinates of seed regions of interest ROI and between-group effects were extracted and coded. Seed ROIs were categorized into seed networks by their location within an a priori template. Multilevel kernel density analysis was used to identify brain networks in which schizophrenia was linked to hyper-connectivity or hypo-connectivity with each a priori network. Our results showed that schizophrenia was characterized by hypo-connectivity within the default network DN self-related thought affective network AN emotion processing ventral attention network VAN processing of salience thalamus network TN gating information and somatosensory network SS involved in sensory and auditory perception. Additionally hypo-connectivity between the VAN and TN VAN and DN VAN and frontoparietal network FN external goal-directed regulation FN and TN and FN and DN were found in schizophrenia. Finally the only instance of hyper-connectivity in schizophrenia was observed between the AN and VAN. Our meta-analysis motivates an empirical foundation for a disconnected large-scale brain networks model of schizophrenia in which the salience processing network VAN plays the core role and its imbalanced communication with other functional networks may underlie the core difficulty of patients to differentiate self-representation inner world and environmental salience processing outside world. Dysfunction of Large-Scale Brain Networks in Schizophrenia: A Meta-analysis of Resting-State Functional Connectivity.