We introduce a new representation and feature extraction method for biological sequences. Named bio-vectors BioVec to refer to biological sequences in general with protein-vectors ProtVec for proteins amino-acid sequences and gene-vectors GeneVec for gene sequences this representation can be widely used in applications of deep learning in proteomics and genomics. In the present paper we focus on protein-vectors that can be utilized in a wide array of bioinformatics investigations such as family classification protein visualization structure prediction disordered protein identification and protein-protein interaction prediction. In this method we adopt artificial neural network approaches and represent a protein sequence with a single dense n-dimensional vector. To evaluate this method we apply it in classification of 324018 protein sequences obtained from Swiss-Prot belonging to 7027 protein families where an average family classification accuracy of 93%0.06% is obtained outperforming existing family classification methods. In addition we use ProtVec representation to predict disordered proteins from structured proteins. Two databases of disordered sequences are used: the DisProt database as well as a database featuring the disordered regions of nucleoporins rich with phenylalanine-glycine repeats FG-Nups. Using support vector machine classifiers FG-Nup sequences are distinguished from structured protein sequences found in Protein Data Bank PDB with a 99.8% accuracy and unstructured DisProt sequences are differentiated from structured DisProt sequences with 100.0% accuracy. These results indicate that by only providing sequence data for various proteins into this model accurate information about protein structure can be determined. Importantly this model needs to be trained only once and can then be applied to extract a comprehensive set of information regarding proteins of interest. Moreover this representation can be considered as pre-training for various applications of deep learning in bioinformatics. The related data is available at Life Language Processing Website: http://llp.berkeley.edu and Harvard Dataverse: http://dx.doi.org/10.7910/DVN/JMFHTN. Continuous Distributed Representation of Biological Sequences for Deep Proteomics and Genomics.