"Automatic segmentation of brain tissues and white matter hyperintensities of presumed vascular origin WMH in MRI of older patients is widely described in the literature. Although brain abnormalities and motion artefacts are common in this age group most segmentation methods are not evaluated in a setting that includes these items. In the present study our tissue segmentation method for brain MRI was extended and evaluated for additional WMH segmentation. Furthermore our method was evaluated in two large cohorts with a realistic variation in brain abnormalities and motion artefacts. The method uses a multi-scale convolutional neural network with a T1-weighted image a T2-weighted fluid attenuated inversion recovery FLAIR image and a T1-weighted inversion recovery IR image as input. The method automatically segments white matter WM cortical grey matter cGM basal ganglia and thalami BGT cerebellum CB brain stem BS lateral ventricular cerebrospinal fluid lvCSF peripheral cerebrospinal fluid pCSF and WMH. Our method was evaluated quantitatively with images publicly available from the MRBrainS13 challenge n\xa0=\xa020 quantitatively and qualitatively in relatively healthy older subjects n\xa0=\xa096 and qualitatively in patients from a memory clinic n\xa0=\xa0110. The method can accurately segment WMH Overall Dice coefficient in the MRBrainS13 data of 0.67 without compromising performance for tissue segmentations Overall Dice coefficients in the MRBrainS13 data of 0.87 for WM 0.85 for cGM 0.82 for BGT 0.93 for CB 0.92 for BS 0.93 for lvCSF 0.76 for pCSF. Furthermore the automatic WMH volumes showed a high correlation with manual WMH volumes Spearmans \xa0=\xa00.83 for relatively healthy older subjects. In both cohorts our method produced reliable segmentations as determined by a human observer in most images relatively healthy/memory clinic: tissues 88%/77% reliable WMH 85%/84% reliable despite various degrees of brain abnormalities and motion artefacts. In conclusion this study shows that a convolutional neural network-based segmentation method can accurately segment brain tissues and WMH in MR images of older patients with varying degrees of brain abnormalities and motion artefacts." Evaluation of a deep learning approach for the segmentation of brain tissues and white matter hyperintensities of presumed vascular origin in\xa0MRI.