The degree to which others in our environment influence sensorimotor processing has been a particular focus of cognitive neuroscience for the past two decades. This process of self-other resonance or shared body representation has only recently been extended to more global bodily processes such as self-location self-motion perception balance and perspective taking. In this review we outline these previously overlooked areas of research to bridge the distinct field of social neuroscience with global self-perception vestibular processing and postural control. Firstly we outline research showing that the presence and movement of others can modulate two fundamental experiences of the self: self-location the experience of where the self is located in space and self-motion perception the experience that oneself has moved or has been moved in space. Secondly we outline recent research that has shown perturbations in balance control as a result of instability in others in our environment. Conversely to this we also highlight studies in virtual reality demonstrating the potential benefits of the presence of others in our environment for those undergoing vestibular rehabilitation. Thirdly we outline studies of first- and third-person perspective taking which is the ability to have or take a visuo-spatial perspective within and out-with the confines of our own body. These studies demonstrate a contamination of perspective taking processes i.e. automatic implicit third-person perspective taking in the presence of others. This collection of research highlights the importance of social cues in the more global processing of the self and its accompanying sensory inputs particularly vestibular signals. Future research will need to better determine the mechanisms of self-other resonance within these processes including the role of individual differences in the susceptibility to the influence of another. In the presence of others: Self-location balance control and vestibular processing.