"Accurate and early diagnosis of Alzheimers disease AD plays important role for patient care and development of future treatment. Structural and functional neuroimages such as magnetic resonance images MRI and positron emission tomography PET are providing powerful imaging modalities to help understand the anatomical and functional neural changes related to AD. In recent years machine learning methods have been widely studied on analysis of multi-modality neuroimages for quantitative evaluation and computer-aided-diagnosis CAD of AD. Most existing methods extract the hand-craft imaging features after image preprocessing such as registration and segmentation and then train a classifier to distinguish AD subjects from other groups. This paper proposes to construct cascaded convolutional neural networks CNNs to learn the multi-level and multimodal features of MRI and PET brain images for AD classification. First multiple deep 3D-CNNs are constructed on different local image patches to transform the local brain image into more compact high-level features. Then an upper high-level 2D-CNN followed by softmax layer is cascaded to ensemble the high-level features learned from the multi-modality and generate the latent multimodal correlation features of the corresponding image patches for classification task. Finally these learned features are combined by a fully connected layer followed by softmax layer for AD classification. The proposed method can automatically learn the generic multi-level and multimodal features from multiple imaging modalities for classification which are robust to the scale and rotation variations to some extent. No image segmentation and rigid registration are required in pre-processing the brain images. Our method is evaluated on the baseline MRI and PET images of 397 subjects including 93\xa0AD patients 204 mild cognitive impairment MCI 76 pMCI +128 sMCI and 100 normal controls NC from Alzheimers Disease Neuroimaging Initiative ADNI database. Experimental results show that the proposed method achieves an accuracy of 93.26% for classification of AD vs. NC and 82.95% for classification pMCI vs. NC demonstrating the promising classification performance." "Multi-Modality Cascaded Convolutional Neural Networks for Alzheimers Disease Diagnosis."