"Research evidence has suggested that anxiety influences gait in PD with an identified dopa-sensitive gait response in highly anxious PD. It has been well-established that accurate perception of the environment and sensory feedback is essential for gait. Arguably since sensory and perceptual deficits have been noted in PD anxiety has the potential to exacerbate movement impairments since one might expect that reducing resources needed to overcome or compensate for sensory-perceptual deficits may lead to even more severe gait impairments. It is possible that anxiety in threatening situations might consume more processing resources limiting the ability to process information about the environment or ones own movement sensory feedback especially in highly anxious PD. Therefore the current study aimed to i evaluate whether processing of threat-related aspects of the environment was influenced by anxiety ii evaluate whether anxiety influences the ability to utilize sensory feedback in PD while walking in threatening situations and iii further understand the role of dopaminergic medication on these processes in threatening situations in PD. Forty-eight participants 24 HC; 12 Low Anxious LA-PD 12 Highly Anxious HA-PD completed 20 walking trials in virtual reality across a plank that was i located on the ground GROUND ii located above a deep pit ELEVATED; while provided with or without visual feedback about their lower limbs +VF; -VF. After walking across the plank participants were asked to judge the width of the plank they had just walked across. The plank varied in size from 60-100 cm. Both ON and OFF dopaminergic medication states were evaluated in PD. Gait parameters judgment error and self-reported anxiety levels were measured. Results showed that HA-PD reported greater levels of anxiety overall p<0.001 compared to HC and LA-PD and all participants reported greater anxiety during the ELEVATED condition compared to GROUND p=0.01. PD had similar judgment error as HC. Additionally medication state did not significantly influence judgment error in PD. More importantly HA-PD were the only group that did not adjust their step width when feedback was provided during the GROUND condition. However medication facilitated a reduction in ST-CV when visual feedback was available only in the HA-PD group. Therefore the current study provides evidence that anxiety may interfere with information processing especially utilizing sensory feedback while walking. Dopaminergic medication appears to improve utilization of sensory feedback in stressful situations by reducing anxiety and/or improving resource allocation especially in those with PD who are highly anxious." "Virtually-induced threat in Parkinsons: Dopaminergic interactions between anxiety and sensory-perceptual processing while walking."