Motor rehabilitation based on the association of electroencephalographic EEG activity and proprioceptive feedback has been demonstrated as a feasible therapy for patients with paralysis. To promote long-lasting motor recovery these interventions have to be carried out across several weeks or even months. The success of these therapies partly relies on the performance of the system decoding movement intentions which normally has to be recalibrated to deal with the nonstationarities of the cortical activity. Minimizing the recalibration times is important to reduce the setup preparation and maximize the effective therapy time. To date a systematic analysis of the effect of recalibration strategies in EEG-driven interfaces for motor rehabilitation has not yet been performed. Data from patients with stroke 4 patients 8 sessions and spinal cord injury SCI 4 patients 5 sessions undergoing two different paradigms self-paced and cue-guided respectively are used to study the performance of the EEG-based classification of motor intentions. Four calibration schemes are compared considering different combinations of training datasets from previous and/or the validated session. The results show significant differences in classifier performances in terms of the true and false positives TPs and FPs. Combining training data from previous sessions with data from the validation session provides the best compromise between the amount of data needed for calibration and the classifier performance. With this scheme the average true false positive rates obtained are 85.3% 17.3% and 72.9% 30.3% for the self-paced and the cue-guided protocols respectively. These results suggest that the use of optimal recalibration schemes for EEG-based classifiers of motor intentions leads to enhanced performances of these technologies while not requiring long calibration phases prior to starting the intervention. Comparing Recalibration Strategies for Electroencephalography-Based Decoders of Movement Intention in Neurological Patients with Motor Disability.