RNA-binding proteins RBPs are important in gene expression regulations by post-transcriptional control of RNAs and immune system development and its function. Due to the help of sequencing technology numerous RNA sequences are newly discovered without knowing their binding partner RBPs. Therefore demands for accurate prediction method for RBP binding sites are increasing. There are many attempts for RBP binding site predictions using various machine-learning techniques combined with various RNA features. In this work we present a new deep convolution neural network model trained on CLIP-seq datasets using multi-sized filters and multi-modal features to predict the binding property of RBPs. With this model we integrated sequence and structure information to extract sequence motifs structure motifs and combined motifs at the same time. The RBP binding site prediction on RBP-24 dataset was compared with two multi-modal methods GraphProt and Deepnet-rbp using area under curve AUC of receiver-operating characteristics ROC. Our method average AUC = 0.920 outperformed 20 RBPs with GraphProt average AUC = 0.888 and 15 RBP with Deepnet-rbp average AUC = 0.902. The improvement was achieved by using multi-sized convolution filters where average relative error reduction was 17%. By introducing new RNA structure representation structure probability matrix average relative error was reduced by 3% when compared to one-hot encoded secondary structure representation. Interestingly structure probability matrix was more effective on ALKBH5 where relative error reduction was 30%. We developed new sequence motif enrichment method which we stated as response enrichment method. We successfully enriched sequence motif for 12 RBPs which had high resemblance with other literature evidences RBPgroup and CISBP-RNA. Finally by analyzing these results altogether we found intricate interplay between sequence motif and structure motif which agreed with other researches. Prediction of binding property of RNA-binding proteins using multi-sized filters and multi-modal deep convolutional neural network.