Recent advances in Deep Neural Networks have allowed the development of efficient and automated diagnosis systems for plant anomalies recognition. Although existing methods have shown promising results they present several limitations to provide an appropriate characterization of the problem especially in real-field scenarios. To address this limitation we propose an approach that besides being able to efficiently detect and localize plant anomalies allows to generate more detailed information about their symptoms and interactions with the scene by combining visual object recognition and language generation. It uses an image as input and generates a diagnosis result that shows the location of anomalies and sentences describing the symptoms as output. Our framework is divided into two main parts: First a detector obtains a set of region features that contain the anomalies using a Region-based Deep Neural Network. Second a language generator takes the features of the detector as input and generates descriptive sentences with details of the symptoms using Long-Short Term Memory LSTM. Our loss metric allows the system to be trained end-to-end from the object detector to the language generator. Finally the system outputs a set of bounding boxes along with the sentences that describe their symptoms using glocal criteria into two different ways: a set of specific descriptions of the anomalies detected in the plant and an abstract description that provides general information about the scene. We demonstrate the efficiency of our approach in the challenging tomato diseases and pests recognition task. We further show that our approach achieves a mean Average Precision mAP of 92.5% in our newly created Tomato Plant Anomalies Description Dataset. Our objective evaluation allows users to understand the relationships between pathologies and their evolution throughout their stage of infection location in the plant symptoms etc. Our work introduces a cost-efficient tool that provides farmers with a technology that facilitates proper handling of crops. Deep Learning-Based Phenotyping System With Glocal Description of Plant Anomalies and Symptoms.