In this article we propose the deep neural network Adversarial Threshold Neural Computer ATNC. The ATNC model is intended for the de novo design of novel small-molecule organic structures. The model is based on generative adversarial network architecture and reinforcement learning. ATNC uses a Differentiable Neural Computer as a generator and has a new specific block called adversarial threshold AT. AT acts as a filter between the agent generator and the environment discriminator + objective reward functions. Furthermore to generate more diverse molecules we introduce a new objective reward function named Internal Diversity Clustering IDC. In this work ATNC is tested and compared with the ORGANIC model. Both models were trained on the SMILES string representation of the molecules using four objective functions internal similarity Muegge druglikeness filter presence or absence of sp3-rich fragments and IDC. The SMILES representations of 15K druglike molecules from the ChemDiv collection were used as a training data set. For the different functions ATNC outperforms ORGANIC. Combined with the IDC ATNC generates 72% of valid and 77% of unique SMILES strings while ORGANIC generates only 7% of valid and 86% of unique SMILES strings. For each set of molecules generated by ATNC and ORGANIC we analyzed distributions of four molecular descriptors number of atoms molecular weight logP and tpsa and calculated five chemical statistical features internal diversity number of unique heterocycles number of clusters number of singletons and number of compounds that have not been passed through medicinal chemistry filters. Analysis of key molecular descriptors and chemical statistical features demonstrated that the molecules generated by ATNC elicited better druglikeness properties. We also performed in vitro validation of the molecules generated by ATNC; results indicated that ATNC is an effective method for producing hit compounds. Adversarial Threshold Neural Computer for Molecular de Novo Design.