Spatial abilities associated with success in educational and occupational fields of Science Technology Engineering and Mathematics STEM have been repeatedly shown to be gendered with males demonstrating measurably better spatial abilities than females. Less is known about why this is or about how experience with spatial systems videogames for example affects these abilities. We conducted two experiments with 82 participants with varying degrees of videogame experience on measures of mental rotation spatial learning and spatial memory. Spatial learning and memory were tested in a Virtual Morris Water Maze. In the first experiment the maze lacked proximal landmarks. Males proved faster and more accurate than females in learning the location of the hidden platform. As predicted males also outperformed females in mental rotation abilities. Mental rotation correlated with performance in the virtual maze indicating that in the absence of proximal landmarks participants relied on strategies requiring mental rotation. Experienced 3D videogame players did not demonstrate superior spatial learning and memory but performed better than novices in mental rotation. In the second experiment the maze had proximal cues in the form of landmarks on the circumference of the virtual pool and gender-based differences in navigational performance significantly diminished. Under these changed environmental conditions mental rotation ability did not correlate with performance in the VMWM suggesting that given proximal cues the need for mental rotation diminishes. Differences between videogame novices and experts also decreased when proximal cues were provided. Females in particular obtained more discernible benefits from videogame experience. Together these experiments reveal how the spatial abilities and strategies used to solve the Morris maze task vary with environmental design. Given the structural similarities between the virtual maze and videogame environments these results offer insight into how spatial experience gained through videogame playing can affect aspects of spatial cognition and can help identify design elements that contribute to their improvement. Gender videogames and navigation in virtual space.