"Cryo-electron microscopy cryo-EM has become a leading technology for determining protein structures. Recent advances in this field have allowed for atomic resolution. However predicting the backbone trace of a protein has remained a challenge on all but the most pristine density maps <2.5\u2009 resolution. Here we introduce a deep learning model that uses a set of cascaded convolutional neural networks CNNs to predict C atoms along a proteins backbone structure. The cascaded-CNN C-CNN is a novel deep learning architecture comprised of multiple CNNs each predicting a specific aspect of a proteins structure. This model predicts secondary structure elements SSEs backbone structure and C atoms combining the results of each to produce a complete prediction map. The cascaded-CNN is a semantic segmentation image classifier and was trained using thousands of simulated density maps. This method is largely automatic and only requires a recommended threshold value for each protein density map. A specialized tabu-search path walking algorithm was used to produce an initial backbone trace with C placements. A helix-refinement algorithm made further improvements to the -helix SSEs of the backbone trace. Finally a novel quality assessment-based combinatorial algorithm was used to effectively map protein sequences onto\xa0C traces to obtain full-atom protein structures. This method was tested on 50 experimental maps between 2.6\u2009 and 4.4\u2009 resolution. It outperformed several state-of-the-art prediction methods including Rosetta de-novo MAINMAST and a Phenix based method by producing the most complete predicted protein\xa0structures as measured by percentage of found C atoms. This method accurately predicted 88.9% mean of the C atoms within 3\u2009 of a proteins backbone structure surpassing the 66.8% mark achieved by the leading alternate method Phenix based fully automatic method on the same set of density maps. The C-CNN also achieved an average root-mean-square deviation RMSD of 1.24\u2009 on a set of 50 experimental density maps which was tested by the Phenix based fully automatic method. The source code and demo of this research has been published at https://github.com/DrDongSi/Ca-Backbone-Prediction." Deep Learning to Predict Protein Backbone Structure from High-Resolution Cryo-EM Density Maps.