"Lower extremity powered exoskeletons LEPE are an emerging technology that assists people with lower-limb paralysis. LEPE for people with complete spinal cord injury walk at very slow speeds below 0.5m/s. For the able-bodied population very slow walking uses different neuromuscular locomotor postural and dynamic balance control. Speed dependent kinetic and kinematic regression equations in the literature could be used for very slow walking LEPE trajectory scaling; however kinematic and kinetic information at walking speeds below 0.5 m/s is lacking. Scaling LEPE trajectories using current reference equations may be inaccurate because these equations were produced from faster than real-world LEPE walking speeds. An improved understanding of how able-bodied people biomechanically adapt to very slow walking will provide LEPE developers with more accurate models to predict and scale LEPE gait trajectories. Full body motion capture data were collected from 30 healthy adults while walking on an instrumented self-paced treadmill within a CAREN-Extended virtual reality environment. Kinematic and kinetic data were collected for 0.2 m/s-0.8 m/s and self-selected walking speed. Thirty-three common sagittal kinematic and kinetic gait parameters were identified from motion capture data and inverse dynamics. Gait parameter relationships to walking speed cadence and stride length were determined with linear and quadratic second and third order regression. For parameters with a non-linear relationship with speed cadence or stride-length linear regressions were used to determine if a consistent inflection occurred for faster and slower walking speeds. Group mean equations were applied to each participants data to determine the best performing equations for calculating important peak sagittal kinematic and kinetic gait parameters. Quadratic models based on walking speed had the strongest correlations with sagittal kinematic and kinetic gait parameters with kinetic parameters having the better results. The lack of a consistent inflection point indicated that the kinematic and kinetic gait strategies did not change at very slow gait speeds. This research showed stronger associations with speed and gait parameters then previous studies and provided more accurate regression equations for gait parameters at very slow walking speeds that can be used for LEPE joint trajectory development." Lower limb sagittal kinematic and kinetic modeling of very slow walking for gait trajectory scaling.