Describe a Web-based wireless visual guidance system that mitigates issues associated with hard-wired audio-visual aided patient interactive motion management systems that are cumbersome to use in routine clinical practice. Web-based wireless visual display duplicates an existing visual display of a respiratory-motion management system for visual guidance. The visual display of the existing system is sent to legacy Web clients over a private wireless network thereby allowing a wireless setting for real-time visual guidance. In this study active breathing coordinator ABC trace was used as an input for visual display which captured and transmitted to Web clients. Virtual reality goggles require two left and right eye view images for visual display. We investigated the performance of Web-based wireless visual guidance by quantifying 1 the network latency of visual displays between an ABC computer display and Web clients of a laptop an iPad mini 2 and an iPhone 6 and 2 the frame rate of visual display on the Web clients in frames per second fps. The network latency of visual display between the ABC computer and Web clients was about 100\xa0ms and the frame rate was 14.0\xa0fps laptop 9.2\xa0fps iPad mini 2 and 11.2\xa0fps iPhone 6. In addition visual display for virtual reality goggles was successfully shown on the iPhone 6 with 100\xa0ms and 11.2\xa0fps. A high network security was maintained by utilizing the private network configuration. This study demonstrated that a Web-based wireless visual guidance can be a promising technique for clinical motion management systems which require real-time visual display of their outputs. Based on the results of this study our approach has the potential to reduce clutter associated with wired-systems reduce space requirements and extend the use of medical devices from static usage to interactive and dynamic usage in a radiotherapy treatment vault. Technical note: real-time web-based wireless visual guidance system for radiotherapy.