"Functional connectivity analysis of functional MRI fMRI can represent brain networks and reveal insights into interactions amongst different brain regions. However most connectivity analysis approaches adopted in practice are linear and non-directional. In this paper we demonstrate the advantage of a data-driven directed connectivity analysis approach called Mutual Connectivity Analysis using Local Models MCA-LM that approximates connectivity by modeling nonlinear dependencies of signal interaction over more conventionally used approaches such as Pearsons and partial correlation Patels conditional dependence measures etcetera. We demonstrate on realistic simulations of fMRI data that at long sampling intervals i.e. high repetition time TR of fMRI signals MCA-LM performs better than or comparable to correlation-based methods and Patels measures. However at fast image acquisition rates corresponding to low TR MCA-LM significantly outperforms these methods. This insight is particularly useful in the light of recent advances in fast fMRI acquisition techniques. Methods that can capture the complex dynamics of brain activity such as MCA-LM should be adopted to extract as much information as possible from the improved representation. Furthermore MCA-LM works very well for simulations generated at weak neuronal interaction strengths and simulations modeling inhibitory and excitatory connections as it disentangles the two opposing effects between pairs of regions/voxels. Additionally we demonstrate that MCA-LM is capable of capturing meaningful directed connectivity on experimental fMRI data. Such results suggest that it introduces sufficient complexity into modeling fMRI time-series interactions that simple linear approaches cannot while being data-driven computationally practical and easy to use. In conclusion MCA-LM can provide valuable insights towards better understanding brain activity." Mutual connectivity analysis of resting-state functional MRI data with local models.