"The growth of functional MRI has led to development of human brain atlases derived by parcellating resting-state connectivity patterns into functionally independent regions of interest ROIs. All functional atlases to date have been derived from resting-state fMRI data. But given that functional connectivity between regions varies with task we hypothesized that an atlas incorporating both resting-state and task-based fMRI data would produce an atlas with finer characterization of task-relevant regions than an atlas derived from resting-state alone. To test this hypothesis we derived parcellation atlases from twenty-nine healthy adult participants enrolled in the Cognitive Connectome project an initiative to improve functional MRIs translation into clinical decision-making by mapping normative variance in brain-behavior relationships. Participants underwent resting-state and task-based fMRI spanning nine cognitive domains: motor visuospatial attention language memory affective processing decision-making working memory and executive function. Spatially constrained n-cut parcellation derived brain atlases using 1 all participants functional data Task or 2 a single resting-state scan Rest. An atlas was also derived from random parcellation for comparison purposes Random. Two methods were compared: 1 a parcellation applied to the groups mean edge weights mean and 2 a two-stage approach with parcellation of individual edge weights followed by parcellation of mean binarized edges two-stage. The resulting Task and Rest atlases had significantly greater similarity with each other mean Jaccard indices JI=0.72-0.85 than with the Random atlases JI=0.59-0.63; all p<0.001 after Bonferroni correction. Task and Rest atlas similarity was greatest for the two-stage method JI=0.85 which has been shown as more robust than the mean method; these atlases also better reproduced voxelwise seed maps of the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex during rest and performing the n-back working memory task r=0.75-0.80 than the Random atlases r=0.64-0.72 further validating their utility. We expected regions governing higher-order cognition such as frontal and anterior temporal lobes to show greatest difference between Task and Rest atlases; contrary to expectations these areas had greatest similarity between atlases. Our findings indicate that atlases derived from parcellation of task-based and resting-state fMRI data are highly comparable and existing resting-state atlases are suitable for task-based analyses. We introduce an anatomically labeled fMRI-derived whole-brain human atlas for future Cognitive Connectome analyses." A human brain atlas derived via n-cut parcellation of resting-state and task-based fMRI data.