"Deep fully convolutional neural network FCN based architectures have shown great potential in medical image segmentation. However such architectures usually have millions of parameters and inadequate number of training samples leading to over-fitting and poor generalization. In this paper we present a novel DenseNet based FCN architecture for cardiac segmentation which is parameter and memory efficient. We propose a novel up-sampling path which incorporates long skip and short-cut connections to overcome the feature map explosion in conventional FCN based architectures. In order to process the input images at multiple scales and view points simultaneously we propose to incorporate Inception modules parallel structures. We propose a novel dual loss function whose weighting scheme allows to combine advantages of cross-entropy and Dice loss leading to qualitative improvements in segmentation. We demonstrate computational efficacy of incorporating conventional computer vision techniques for region of interest detection in an end-to-end deep learning based segmentation framework. From the segmentation maps we extract clinically relevant cardiac parameters and hand-craft features which reflect the clinical diagnostic analysis and train an ensemble system for cardiac disease classification. We validate our proposed network architecture on three publicly available datasets namely: i Automated Cardiac Diagnosis Challenge ACDC-2017 ii Left Ventricular segmentation challenge LV-2011 iii 2015 Kaggle Data Science Bowl cardiac challenge data. Our approach in ACDC-2017 challenge stood second place for segmentation and first place in automated cardiac disease diagnosis tasks with an accuracy of 100% on a limited testing set n=50. In the LV-2011 challenge our approach attained 0.74 Jaccard index which is so far the highest published result in fully automated algorithms. In the Kaggle challenge our approach for LV volume gave a Continuous Ranked Probability Score CRPS of 0.0127 which would have placed us tenth in the original challenge. Our approach combined both cardiac segmentation and disease diagnosis into a fully automated framework which is computationally efficient and hence has the potential to be incorporated in computer-aided diagnosis CAD tools for clinical application." Fully convolutional multi-scale residual DenseNets for cardiac segmentation and automated cardiac diagnosis using ensemble of classifiers.