Brain-computer interfaces BCIs are an emerging technology that are capable of turning brain electrical activity into commands for an external device. Motor imagery MI-when a person imagines a motion without executing it-is widely employed in BCI devices for motor control because of the endogenous origin of its neural control mechanisms and the similarity in brain activation to actual movements. Challenges with translating a MI-BCI into a practical device used outside laboratories include the extensive training required often due to poor user engagement and visual feedback response delays; poor user flexibility/freedom to time the execution/inhibition of their movements and to control the movement type right arm vs. left leg and characteristics reaching vs. grabbing; and high false positive rates of motion control. Solutions to improve sensorimotor activation and user performance of MI-BCIs have been explored. Virtual reality VR motor-execution tasks have replaced simpler visual feedback smiling faces arrows and have solved this problem to an extent. Hybrid BCIs hBCIs implementing an additional control signal to MI have improved user control capabilities to a limited extent. These hBCIs either fail to allow the patients to gain asynchronous control of their movements or have a high false positive rate. We propose an immersive VR environment which provides visual feedback that is both engaging and immediate but also uniquely engages a different cognitive process in the patient that generates event-related potentials ERPs. These ERPs provide a key executive function for the users to execute/inhibit movements. Additionally we propose signal processing strategies and machine learning algorithms to move BCIs toward developing long-term signal stability in patients with distinctive brain signals and capabilities to control motor signals. The hBCI itself and the VR environment we propose would help to move BCI technology outside laboratory environments for motor rehabilitation in hospitals and potentially for controlling a prosthetic. Classification of Movement and Inhibition Using a Hybrid BCI.