"Dopamine underlies important aspects of cognition and has been suggested to boost cognitive performance. However how dopamine modulates the large-scale cortical dynamics during cognitive performance has remained elusive. Using functional MRI during a working memory task in healthy young human listeners we investigated the effect of levodopa l-dopa on two aspects of cortical dynamics blood oxygen-level-dependent BOLD signal variability and the functional connectome of large-scale cortical networks. We here show that enhanced dopaminergic signaling modulates the two potentially interrelated aspects of large-scale cortical dynamics during cognitive performance and the degree of these modulations is able to explain inter-individual differences in l-dopa-induced behavioral benefits. Relative to placebo l-dopa increased BOLD signal variability in task-relevant temporal inferior frontal parietal and cingulate regions. On the connectome level however l-dopa diminished functional integration across temporal and cingulo-opercular regions. This hypo-integration was expressed as a reduction in network efficiency and modularity in more than two thirds of the participants and to different degrees. Hypo-integration co-occurred with relative hyper-connectivity in paracentral lobule and precuneus as well as posterior putamen. Both l-dopa-induced BOLD signal variability modulation and functional connectome modulations proved predictive of an individuals l-dopa-induced benefits in behavioral performance namely response speed and perceptual sensitivity. Lastly l-dopa-induced modulations of BOLD signal variability were correlated with l-dopa-induced modulation of nodal connectivity and network efficiency. Our findings underline the role of dopamine in maintaining the dynamic range of and communication between cortical systems and their explanatory power for inter-individual differences in benefits from dopamine during cognitive performance." Dopaminergic modulation of hemodynamic signal variability and the functional connectome during cognitive performance.