Early findings from Broca and Wernicke led to the classical view of hemispheric specialization where the main idea relates to left-hemisphere language capabilities compared to right-hemisphere visual capabilities. Federmeier and Benjamin 2005 have suggested that semantic encoding for verbal information in the right hemisphere can be more effective when memory demands are higher. In light of this our main goal was to study the effect of retention level of verbal information on hemispheric processes. However regarding the cross-linguistic differences in orthography and their subsequent effects on word recognition Frost Katz & Bentin 1987 our intent was also to test prior predictions of Federmeier and Benjamin 2005 for a "shallow" orthography language where words have a clear correspondence between graphemes and phonemes as opposed to English which is a "deep" orthography language. Portuguese concrete nouns were selected. The participants were submitted to a visual half-field word presentation using a continuous recognition memory paradigm. The retention level included 1 2 4 8 20 or 40 words. Results showed that recognition accuracy was higher for words studied in the right visual field compared to those studied in the left visual field when the retention interval included 2 4 or 20 words. No significant differences were found for the remaining intervals. Further analysis on accuracy data for intermediate retention levels showed that recognition accuracy was higher for the 2 words retention level than for the levels including 4 8 or 20 words; it was higher for left-hemisphere encoding as well. Our results also indicated that reaction times were slower for left-hemisphere encoding and for the 40 words retention level when compared to that of 20 words. In summary the current results are in partial agreement with those of Federmeier and Benjamin 2005 and suggest different hemispheric memory strategies for the semantic encoding of verbal information. Hemispheric asymmetry in recognition memory: effects of retention level on the recognition of Portuguese words.