Current strategies for optimizing deep brain stimulation DBS therapy involve multiple postoperative visits. During each visit stimulation parameters are adjusted until desired therapeutic effects are achieved and adverse effects are minimized. However the efficacy of these therapeutic parameters may decline with time due at least in part to disease progression interactions between the host environment and the electrode and lead migration. As such development of closed-loop control systems that can respond to changing neurochemical environments tailoring DBS therapy to individual patients is paramount for improving the therapeutic efficacy of DBS. Evidence obtained using electrophysiology and imaging techniques in both animals and humans suggests that DBS works by modulating neural network activity. Recently animal studies have shown that stimulation-evoked changes in neurotransmitter release that mirror normal physiology are associated with the therapeutic benefits of DBS. Therefore to fully understand the neurophysiology of DBS and optimize its efficacy it may be necessary to look beyond conventional electrophysiological analyses and characterize the neurochemical effects of therapeutic and non-therapeutic stimulation. By combining electrochemical monitoring and mathematical modeling techniques we can potentially replace the trial-and-error process used in clinical programming with deterministic approaches that help attain optimal and stable neurochemical profiles. In this manuscript we summarize the current understanding of electrophysiological and electrochemical processing for control of neuromodulation therapies. Additionally we describe a proof-of-principle closed-loop controller that characterizes DBS-evoked dopamine changes to adjust stimulation parameters in a rodent model of DBS. The work described herein represents the initial steps toward achieving a "smart" neuroprosthetic system for treatment of neurologic and psychiatric disorders. A neurochemical closed-loop controller for deep brain stimulation: toward individualized smart neuromodulation therapies.