This paper reviews the literature relating to the biofeedback used in physical rehabilitation. The biofeedback methods used in rehabilitation are based on biomechanical measurements and measurements of the physiological systems of the body. The physiological systems of the body which can be measured to provide biofeedback are the neuromuscular system the respiratory system and the cardiovascular system. Neuromuscular biofeedback methods include electromyography EMG biofeedback and real-time ultrasound imaging RTUS biofeedback. EMG biofeedback is the most widely investigated method of biofeedback and appears to be effective in the treatment of many musculoskeletal conditions and in post cardiovascular accident CVA rehabilitation. RTUS biofeedback has been demonstrated effective in the treatment of low back pain LBP and pelvic floor muscle dysfunction. Cardiovascular biofeedback methods have been shown to be effective in the treatment of a number of health conditions such as hypertension heart failure asthma fibromyalgia and even psychological disorders however a systematic review in this field has yet to be conducted. Similarly the number of large scale studies examining the use of respiratory biofeedback in rehabilitation is limited. Measurements of movement postural control and force output can be made using a number of different devices and used to deliver biomechanical biofeedback. Inertial based sensing biofeedback is the most widely researched biomechanical biofeedback method with a number of studies showing it to be effective in improving measures of balance in a number of populations. Other types of biomechanical biofeedback include force plate systems electrogoniometry pressure biofeedback and camera based systems however the evidence for these is limited. Biofeedback is generally delivered using visual displays acoustic or haptic signals however more recently virtual reality VR or exergaming technology have been used as biofeedback signals. VR and exergaming technology have been primarily investigated in post-CVA rehabilitation however more recent work has shown this type of biofeedback to be effective in improving exercise technique in musculoskeletal populations. While a number of studies in this area have been conducted further large scale studies and reviews investigating different biofeedback applications in different clinical populations are required. Biofeedback in rehabilitation.