Data center DC plays an important role to support services such as e-commerce and cloud computing. The resulting energy consumption from this growing market has drawn significant attention and noticeably almost half of the energy cost is used to cool the DC to a particular temperature. It is thus an critical operational challenge to curb the cooling energy cost without sacrificing the thermal safety of a DC. The existing solutions typically follow a two-step approach in which the system is first modeled based on expert knowledge and thus the operational actions are determined with heuristics and/or best practices. These approaches are often hard to generalize and might result in suboptimal performances due to intrinsic model errors for large-scale systems. In this paper we propose optimizing the DC cooling control via the emerging deep reinforcement learning DRL framework. Compared to the existing approaches our solution lends itself an end-to-end cooling control algorithm CCA via an off-policy offline version of the deep deterministic policy gradient DDPG algorithm in which an evaluation network is trained to predict the DC energy cost along with resulting cooling effects and a policy network is trained to gauge optimized control settings. Moreover we introduce a de-underestimation DUE validation mechanism for the critic network to reduce the potential underestimation of the risk caused by neural approximation. Our proposed algorithm is evaluated on an EnergyPlus simulation platform and on a real data trace collected from the National Super Computing Centre NSCC of Singapore. The resulting numerical results show that the proposed CCA can achieve up to 11% cooling cost reduction on the simulation platform compared with a manually configured baseline control algorithm. In the trace-based study of conservative nature the proposed algorithm can achieve about 15% cooling energy savings on the NSCC data trace. Our pioneering approach can shed new light on the application of DRL to optimize and automate DC operations and management potentially revolutionizing digital infrastructure management with intelligence. Transforming Cooling Optimization for Green Data Center via Deep Reinforcement Learning.