Evidence suggests that the cortico-striatal-thalamo-cortical circuitry plays an important role in schizophrenia pathophysiology. Cerebellar contribution from deep cerebellar nuclei to the circuitry has not yet been examined. The authors investigated resting-state functional connectivity RSFC of cerebellar output nuclei with striatal-thalamic-cortical regions in relation to white-matter integrity and regional gray-matter volumes in first-episode psychosis FEP. Methods: Forty FEP patients and 40 age- and gender-matched healthy control subjects HCs participated. RSFC between cerebellar nuclei and striatal-thalamic-cortical regions was examined. Diffusion tensor imaging and volumetric scans were examined for possible structural constraints on RSFC. The authors also examined relationships between neuroimaging variables and cognitive and clinical measures. Results: FEP patients compared with HCs exhibited decreased RSFC between the left fastigial nucleus and right putamen which was associated with poor letter fluency performance and lower global assessment of functioning scores. By contrast patients showed widespread increased accumbens network connectivity in the left nucleus. The authors further observed both hypo- and hyper-RSFC between the cerebellar nuclei and fronto-parietal areas in patients independent of striatal activity. Finally the authors found impaired integrity of the left superior cerebellar peduncle and decreased bilateral putamen volume in patients whereas structural-functional relationships found in HCs were absent in patients. Conclusions: This study provides evidence of disordered RSFC of cerebellar output nuclei to the striatum and neocortex at the early stage of schizophrenia. Furthermore dysfunctional cerebellar influences on fronto-parietal areas that are independent of striatal dysfunction in patients with FEP were observed. The results suggest that cortico-striatal abnormalities in patients with FEP are produced by abnormal cerebellar influences. Functional and Structural Connectivity of the Cerebellar Nuclei With the Striatum and Cerebral Cortex in First-Episode Psychosis.