Classification of neural signals at the single-trial level and the study of their relevance in affective and cognitive neuroscience are still in their infancy. Here we investigated the neurophysiological correlates of conditions of increasing social scene complexity using 3D human models as targets of attention which may also be important in autism research. Challenging single-trial statistical classification of EEG neural signals was attempted for detection of oddball stimuli with increasing social scene complexity. Stimuli had an oddball structure and were as follows: 1 flashed schematic eyes 2 simple 3D faces flashed between averted and non-averted gaze only eye position changing 3 simple 3D faces flashed between averted and non-averted gaze head and eye position changing 4 animated avatar alternated its gaze direction to the left and to the right head and eye position 5 environment with 4 animated avatars all of which change gaze and one of which is the target of attention. We found a late > 300 ms neurophysiological oddball correlate for all conditions irrespective of their complexity as assessed by repeated measures ANOVA. We attempted single-trial detection of this signal with automatic classifiers and obtained a significant balanced accuracy classification of around 79% which is noteworthy given the amount of scene complexity. Lateralization analysis showed a specific right lateralization only for more complex realistic social scenes. In sum complex ecological animations with social content elicit neurophysiological events which can be characterized even at the single-trial level. These signals are right lateralized. These finding paves the way for neuroscientific studies in affective neuroscience based on complex social scenes and given the detectability at the single trial level this suggests the feasibility of brain computer interfaces that can be applied to social cognition disorders such as autism. Neural signals evoked by stimuli of increasing social scene complexity are detectable at the single-trial level and right lateralized.