"The functional neuroanatomy and connectivity of reward processing in adults are well documented with relatively less research on adolescents a notable gap given this developmental periods association with altered reward sensitivity. Here a large sample n\u2009=\u20091510 of adolescents performed the monetary incentive delay MID task during functional magnetic resonance imaging. Probabilistic maps identified brain regions that were reliably responsive to reward anticipation and receipt and to prediction errors derived from a computational model. Psychophysiological interactions analyses were used to examine functional connections throughout reward processing. Bilateral ventral striatum pallidum insula thalamus hippocampus cingulate cortex midbrain motor area and occipital areas were reliably activated during reward anticipation. Bilateral ventromedial prefrontal cortex and bilateral thalamus exhibited positive and negative activation respectively during reward receipt. Bilateral ventral striatum was reliably active following prediction errors. Previously individual differences in the personality trait of sensation seeking were shown to be related to individual differences in sensitivity to reward outcome. Here we found that sensation seeking scores were negatively correlated with right inferior frontal gyrus activity following reward prediction errors estimated using a computational model. Psychophysiological interactions demonstrated widespread cortical and subcortical connectivity during reward processing including connectivity between reward-related regions with motor areas and the salience network. Males had more activation in left putamen right precuneus and middle temporal gyrus during reward anticipation. In summary we found that in adolescents different reward processing stages during the MID task were robustly associated with distinctive patterns of activation and of connectivity." Mapping adolescent reward anticipation receipt and prediction error during the monetary incentive delay task.