Virtual reality simulators are increasingly used to gain robotic surgical skills. This study compared use of the da Vinci Surgical Skills Simulator dVSSS to the standard da Vinci SdV robot for skills acquisition in a prospective randomized study. Residents from urology gynecology and general surgery programs performed three virtual reality tasks thread the ring ring rail and tubes on the dvSSS. Participants were then randomized to one of the two study groups dVSSS and SdV. Each participant then practiced on either the dVSSS or the SdV depending on randomization for 30\xa0min per week over a 4-week time period. The dVSSS arm was not permitted to practice ring rail due to no similar practice scenario available for the SdV group. Following 4\xa0weeks of practice participants performed the same three virtual reality tasks and the results were recorded and compared to baseline. Overall and percent improvement were recorded for all participants from pre-test to post-test. Two-way ANOVA analyses were used to compare the dVSSS and SdV groups and three tasks. Initially 30 participants were identified and enrolled in the study. Randomization resulted in 15 participants in each arm. During the course of the study four participants were unable to complete all tasks and practice sessions and were therefore excluded. This resulted in a total of 26 participants 15 in the dVSSS group and 11 in the SdV group who completed the study. Overall total improvement score was found to be 23.23 and 23.48 for the SdV and dVSSS groups respectively p\xa0=\xa00.9245. The percent improvement was 60 and 47\xa0% for the SdV and dVSSS groups respectively which was a statistically significant difference between the two groups and three tasks. Practicing on the standard da Vinci is comparable to practicing on the da Vinci simulator for acquiring robotic surgical skills. In spite of several potential advantages the dVSSS arm performed no better than the SdV arm in the final assessment of participant scores. Our findings indicate that both the SdV and dVSSS can be beneficial to residents in improving their robotic surgery skills. Battle of the bots: a comparison of the standard da Vinci and the da Vinci Surgical Skills Simulator in surgical skills acquisition.