Revealing the subcellular location of newly discovered protein sequences can bring insight to their function and guide research at the cellular level. The rapidly increasing number of sequences entering the genome databanks has called for the development of automated analysis methods. Currently most existing methods used to predict protein subcellular locations cover only one or a very limited number of species. Therefore it is necessary to develop reliable and effective computational approaches to further improve the performance of protein subcellular prediction and at the same time cover more species. The current study reports the development of a novel predictor called MSLoc-DT to predict the protein subcellular locations of human animal plant bacteria virus fungi and archaea by introducing a novel feature extraction approach termed Amino Acid Index Distribution AAID and then fusing gene ontology information sequential evolutionary information and sequence statistical information through four different modes of pseudo amino acid composition PseAAC with a decision template rule. Using the jackknife test MSLoc-DT can achieve 86.5 98.3 90.3 98.5 95.9 98.1 and 99.3% overall accuracy for human animal plant bacteria virus fungi and archaea respectively on seven stringent benchmark datasets. Compared with other predictors e.g. Gpos-PLoc Gneg-PLoc Virus-PLoc Plant-PLoc Plant-mPLoc ProLoc-Go Hum-PLoc GOASVM on the gram-positive gram-negative virus plant eukaryotic and human datasets the new MSLoc-DT predictor is much more effective and robust. Although the MSLoc-DT predictor is designed to predict the single location of proteins our method can be extended to multiple locations of proteins by introducing multilabel machine learning approaches such as the support vector machine and deep learning as substitutes for the K-nearest neighbor KNN method. As a user-friendly web server MSLoc-DT is freely accessible at http://bioinfo.ibp.ac.cn/MSLOC_DT/index.html. MSLoc-DT: a new method for predicting the protein subcellular location of multispecies based on decision templates.