Classical animal visual deprivation studies and human neuroimaging studies have shown that visual experience plays a critical role in shaping the functionality and connectivity of the visual cortex. Interestingly recent studies have additionally reported circumscribed regions in the visual cortex in which functional selectivity was remarkably similar in individuals with and without visual experience. Here by directly comparing resting-state and task-based fMRI data in congenitally blind and sighted human subjects we obtained large-scale continuous maps of the degree to which connectional and functional "fingerprints" of ventral visual cortex depend on visual experience. We found a close agreement between connectional and functional maps pointing to a strong interdependence of connectivity and function. Visual experience or the absence thereof had a pronounced effect on the resting-state connectivity and functional response profile of occipital cortex and the posterior lateral fusiform gyrus. By contrast connectional and functional fingerprints in the anterior medial and posterior lateral parts of the ventral visual cortex were statistically indistinguishable between blind and sighted individuals. These results provide a large-scale mapping of the influence of visual experience on the development of both functional and connectivity properties of visual cortex which serves as a basis for the formulation of new hypotheses regarding the functionality and plasticity of specific subregions. Significance statement: How is the functionality and connectivity of the visual cortex shaped by visual experience? By directly comparing resting-state and task-based fMRI data in congenitally blind and sighted subjects we obtained large-scale continuous maps of the degree to which connectional and functional "fingerprints" of ventral visual cortex depend on visual experience. In addition to revealing regions that are strongly dependent on visual experience early visual cortex and posterior fusiform gyrus our results showed regions in which connectional and functional patterns are highly similar in blind and sighted individuals anterior medial and posterior lateral ventral occipital temporal cortex. These results serve as a basis for the formulation of new hypotheses regarding the functionality and plasticity of specific subregions of the visual cortex. How Visual Is the Visual Cortex? Comparing Connectional and Functional Fingerprints between Congenitally Blind and Sighted Individuals.