Brain areas within the motor system interact directly or indirectly during motor-imagery and motor-execution tasks. These interactions and their functionality can change following stroke and recovery. How brain network interactions reorganize and recover their functionality during recovery and treatment following stroke are not well understood. To contribute to answering these questions we recorded blood oxygenation-level dependent BOLD functional magnetic resonance imaging fMRI signals from 10 stroke survivors and evaluated dynamical causal modeling DCM-based effective connectivity among three motor areas: primary motor cortex M1 pre-motor cortex PMC and supplementary motor area SMA during motor-imagery and motor-execution tasks. We compared the connectivity between affected and unaffected hemispheres before and after mental practice and combined mental practice and physical therapy as treatments. The treatment intervention period varied in length between 14 to 51\xa0days but all patients received the same dose of 60\xa0h of treatment. Using Bayesian model selection BMS approach in the DCM approach we found that after intervention the same network dominated during motor-imagery and motor-execution tasks but modulatory parameters suggested a suppressive influence of SM A on M1 during the motor-imagery task whereas the influence of SM A on M1 was unrestricted during the motor-execution task. We found that the intervention caused a reorganization of the network during both tasks for unaffected as well as for the affected hemisphere. Using Bayesian model averaging BMA approach we found that the intervention improved the regional connectivity among the motor areas during both the tasks. The connectivity between PMC and M1 was stronger in motor-imagery tasks whereas the connectivity from PMC to M1 SM A to M1 dominated in motor-execution tasks. There was significant behavioral improvement p\xa0=\xa00.001 in sensation and motor movements because of the intervention as reflected by behavioral Fugl-Meyer FMA measures which were significantly correlated p\xa0=\xa00.05 with a subset of connectivity. These findings suggest that PMC and M1 play a crucial role during motor-imagery as well as during motor-execution task. In addition M1 causes more exchange of causal information among motor areas during a motor-execution task than during a motor-imagery task due to its interaction with SM A. This study expands our understanding of motor network involved during two different tasks which are commonly used during rehabilitation following stroke. A clear understanding of the effective connectivity networks leads to a better treatment in helping stroke survivors regain motor ability. Brain effective connectivity during motor-imagery and execution following stroke and rehabilitation.