Sculpting representations of human organs out of modeling clay is an acknowledged method of teaching anatomical structures. Because of its potential to provide detailed spatial information stereoscopic imagery can be understood to function as a suitable template for such sculpting tasks. Currently it is unknown whether the advantages of stereoscopic images for modeling structures result from enhanced depth impression alone or whether task performance is impacted by factors such as situational intrinsic motivation and perceived competence while sculpting a human organ using stereoscopic imagery as template. To clarify these queries 35 eighth-grade students constructed a representation of the nasal cavity consisting of modeling clay. After the working phase their situational intrinsic motivation and their perceived competence were assessed by a paper-and-pencil test and then analyzed as was the elaboration of the sculpted representations. A control group with 38 students working with nonstereoscopic visualizations functioned as a counterpart. Stereoscopic imagery outperformed nonstereoscopic imagery concerning the accuracy in elaborating structures within the representations. However there was no difference between situational intrinsic motivation and perceived competence in the context of using the digital template for forming the representations. Within the cohort working with nonstereoscopic imagery situational intrinsic motivation was correlated with task performance. In contrast within the cohort working with stereoscopic imagery there was no relation concerning this. The findings show that depth impression due to stereoscopic imagery can be utilized to construct template-close representations independently of situational feelings. This independence from situational sensitivities indicates that low situational intrinsic motivation will not condemn students to poor task performance. Using stereoscopic visualizations as templates to construct a spatial hands-on representation-is there a novelty effect?