OBJECTIVEGross-total resection GTR is often the primary surgical goal in transsphenoidal surgery for pituitary adenoma. Existing classifications are effective at predicting GTR but are often hampered by limited discriminatory ability in moderate cases and by poor interrater agreement. Deep learning a subset of machine learning has recently established itself as highly effective in forecasting medical outcomes. In this pilot study the authors aimed to evaluate the utility of using deep learning to predict GTR after transsphenoidal surgery for pituitary adenoma.METHODSData from a prospective registry were used. The authors trained a deep neural network to predict GTR from 16 preoperatively available radiological and procedural variables. Class imbalance adjustment cross-validation and random dropout were applied to prevent overfitting and ensure robustness of the predictive model. The authors subsequently compared the deep learning model to a conventional logistic regression model and to the Knosp classification as a gold standard.RESULTSOverall 140 patients who underwent endoscopic transsphenoidal surgery were included. GTR was achieved in 95 patients 68% with a mean extent of resection of 96.8%  10.6%. Intraoperative high-field MRI was used in 116 83% procedures. The deep learning model achieved excellent area under the curve AUC; 0.96 accuracy 91% sensitivity 94% and specificity 89%. This represents an improvement in comparison with the Knosp classification AUC: 0.87 accuracy: 81% sensitivity: 92% specificity: 70% and a statistically significant improvement in comparison with logistic regression AUC: 0.86 accuracy: 82% sensitivity: 81% specificity: 83% all p < 0.001.CONCLUSIONSIn this pilot study the authors demonstrated the utility of applying deep learning to preoperatively predict the likelihood of GTR with excellent performance. Further training and validation in a prospective multicentric cohort will enable the development of an easy-to-use interface for use in clinical practice. Utility of deep neural networks in predicting gross-total resection after transsphenoidal surgery for pituitary adenoma: a pilot study.