"Schizophrenia is postulated to be the prototypical dysconnection disorder in which hallucinations are the core symptom. Due to high heterogeneity in methodology across studies and the clinical phenotype it remains unclear whether the structural brain dysconnection is global or focal and if clinical symptoms result from this dysconnection. In the present work we attempt to clarify this issue by studying a population considered as a homogeneous genetic sub-type of schizophrenia namely the 22q11.2 deletion syndrome 22q11.2DS. Cerebral MRIs were acquired for 46 patients and 48 age and gender matched controls aged 6-26 respectively mean age = 15.20  4.53 and 15.28  4.35 years old. Using the Connectome mapper pipeline connectomics.org that combines structural and diffusion MRI we created a whole brain network for each individual. Graph theory was used to quantify the global and local properties of the brain network organization for each participant. A global degree loss of 6% was found in patients networks along with an increased Characteristic Path Length. After identifying and comparing hubs a significant loss of degree in patients hubs was found in 58% of the hubs. Based on Allens brain network model for hallucinations we explored the association between local efficiency and symptom severity. Negative correlations were found in the Brocas area p < 0.004 the Wernicke area p < 0.023 and a positive correlation was found in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex DLPFC p < 0.014. In line with the dysconnection findings in schizophrenia our results provide preliminary evidence for a targeted alteration in the brain network hubs organization in individuals with a genetic risk for schizophrenia. The study of specific disorganization in language speech and thought regulation networks sharing similar network properties may help to understand their role in the hallucination mechanism." Graph theory reveals dysconnected hubs in 22q11DS and altered nodal efficiency in patients with hallucinations.