Endometriosis is a gynaecological disease characterised by the presence of endometriotic tissue outside of the uterus impacting a significant fraction of women of childbearing age. Evidence from epidemiological studies suggests a relationship between risk of endometriosis and exposure to some organochlorine persistent organic pollutants POPs. However these chemicals are numerous and occur in complex and highly correlated mixtures and to date most studies have not accounted for this simultaneous exposure. Linear and logistic regression models are constrained to adjusting for multiple exposures when variables are highly intercorrelated resulting in unstable coefficients and arbitrary findings. Advanced machine learning models of emerging use in epidemiology today appear as a promising option to address these limitations. In this study different machine learning techniques were compared on a dataset from a case-control study conducted in France to explore associations between mixtures of POPs and deep endometriosis. The battery of models encompassed regularised logistic regression artificial neural network support vector machine adaptive boosting and partial least-squares discriminant analysis with some additional sparsity constraints. These techniques were applied to identify the biomarkers of internal exposure in adipose tissue most associated with endometriosis and to compare model classification performance. The five tested models revealed a consistent selection of most associated POPs with deep endometriosis including octachlorodibenzofuran cis-heptachlor epoxide polychlorinated biphenyl 77 or trans-nonachlor among others. The high classification performance of all five models confirmed that machine learning may be a promising complementary approach in modelling highly correlated exposure biomarkers and their associations with health outcomes. Regularised logistic regression provided a good compromise between the interpretability of traditional statistical approaches and the classification capacity of machine learning approaches. Applying a battery of complementary algorithms may be a strategic approach to decipher complex exposome-health associations when the underlying structure is unknown. Associations between persistent organic pollutants and endometriosis: A multipollutant assessment using machine learning algorithms.