The degree to which behaviour vertical movement and horizontal transport in relation to local hydrodynamics may facilitate secondary dispersal in the water column was studied in post-larval Sillaginodes punctata in Port Phillip Bay Australia. S. punctata were captured in shallow seagrass beds and released at the surface in three depth zones 1.5 3 and 7 m off-shore at each of two sites to mimic the re-entrainment of fish. The behaviour depth and position of S. punctata were recorded through time. The direction and speed of local currents were described using an S4 current meter and the movement of drogues. Regardless of site fish immediately oriented toward the bottom and into the current after release. In shallow water 1.5 m 86% of fish swam to the bottom within 2 min of release. At one site the net horizontal displacement of fish was largely unrelated to the speed and direction of local currents; at a second site fish could not maintain their position against the current and the net horizontal displacement was related to the speed and direction of currents. In the intermediate depth zone wide variability in depths of individual fish through time led to an average depth reached by fish that was between the shallow and deep zones. Based on daily increments in the otoliths however this variability was not related significantly to the time since entry of fish into Port Phillip Bay. In the deepest depth zone 81% of fish remained within 1 m of the surface and their horizontal displacement was significantly related to the direction and speed of currents. Secondary dispersal of post-larval fish in the water column may be facilitated by the behaviour and vertical movements of fish but only if fish reach deeper water where their displacement direction and distance closely resembles local hydrodynamic regimes. In shallow water fish behaviour and vertical migration actually reduce the potential for secondary dispersal. Swimming ability and behaviour of post-larvae of a temperate marine fish re-entrained in the pelagic environment.