Although there have been impressive strides in detector development for time-of-flight positron emission tomography most detectors still make use of simple signal processing methods to extract the time-of-flight information from the detector signals. In most cases the timing pick-off for each waveform is computed using leading edge discrimination or constant fraction discrimination as these were historically easily implemented with analog pulse processing electronics. However now with the availability of fast waveform digitizers there is opportunity to make use of more of the timing information contained in the coincident detector waveforms with advanced signal processing techniques. Here we describe the application of deep convolutional neural networks CNNs a type of machine learning to estimate time-of-flight directly from the pair of digitized detector waveforms for a coincident event. One of the key features of this approach is the simplicity in obtaining ground-truth-labeled data needed to train the CNN: the true time-of-flight is determined from the difference in path length between the positron emission and each of the coincident detectors which can be easily controlled experimentally. The experimental setup used here made use of two photomultiplier tube-based scintillation detectors and a point source stepped in 5\u2009mm increments over a 15\u2009cm range between the two detectors. The detector waveforms were digitized at 10 GS s-1 using a bench-top oscilloscope. The results shown here demonstrate that CNN-based time-of-flight estimation improves timing resolution by 20% compared to leading edge discrimination 231\u2009ps versus 185\u2009ps and 23% compared to constant fraction discrimination 242\u2009ps versus 185\u2009ps. By comparing several different CNN architectures we also showed that CNN depth number of convolutional and fully connected layers had the largest impact on timing resolution while the exact network parameters such as convolutional filter size and number of feature maps had only a minor influence. Using convolutional neural networks to estimate time-of-flight from PET detector waveforms.