Accumulation of abnormal tau in neurofibrillary tangles NFT occurs in Alzheimer disease AD and a spectrum of tauopathies. These tauopathies have diverse and overlapping morphological phenotypes that obscure classification and quantitative assessments. Recently powerful machine learning-based approaches have emerged allowing the recognition and quantification of pathological changes from digital images. Here we applied deep learning to the neuropathological assessment of NFT in postmortem human brain tissue to develop a classifier capable of recognizing and quantifying tau burden. The histopathological material was derived from 22 autopsy brains from patients with tauopathies. We used a custom web-based informatics platform integrated with an in-house information management system to manage whole slide images WSI and human expert annotations as ground truth. We utilized fully annotated regions to train a deep learning fully convolutional neural network FCN implemented in PyTorch against the human expert annotations. We found that the deep learning framework is capable of identifying and quantifying NFT with a range of staining intensities and diverse morphologies. With our FCN model we achieved high precision and recall in naive WSI semantic segmentation correctly identifying tangle objects using a SegNet model trained for 200 epochs. Our FCN is efficient and well suited for the practical application of WSIs with average processing times of 45\u2009min per WSI per GPU enabling reliable and reproducible large-scale detection of tangles. We measured performance on test data of 50 pre-annotated regions on eight naive WSI across various tauopathies resulting in the recall precision and an F1 score of 0.92 0.72 and 0.81 respectively. Machine learning is a useful tool for complex pathological assessment of AD and other tauopathies. Using deep learning classifiers we have the potential to integrate cell- and region-specific annotations with clinical genetic and molecular data providing unbiased data for clinicopathological correlations that will enhance our knowledge of the neurodegeneration. Artificial intelligence in neuropathology: deep learning-based assessment of tauopathy.