Automatic image segmentation is critical to scale up electron microscope EM connectome reconstruction. To this end segmentation competitions such as CREMI and SNEMI exist to help researchers evaluate segmentation algorithms with the goal of improving them. Because generating ground truth is time-consuming these competitions often fail to capture the challenges in segmenting larger datasets required in connectomics. More generally the common metrics for EM image segmentation do not emphasize impact on downstream analysis and are often not very useful for isolating problem areas in the segmentation. For example they do not capture connectivity information and often over-rate the quality of a segmentation as we demonstrate later. To address these issues we introduce a novel strategy to enable evaluation of segmentation at large scales both in a supervised setting where ground truth is available or an unsupervised setting. To achieve this we first introduce new metrics more closely aligned with the use of segmentation in downstream analysis and reconstruction. In particular these include synapse connectivity and completeness metrics that provide both meaningful and intuitive interpretations of segmentation quality as it relates to the preservation of neuron connectivity. Also we propose measures of segmentation correctness and completeness with respect to the percentage of "orphan" fragments and the concentrations of self-loops formed by segmentation failures which are helpful in analysis and can be computed without ground truth. The introduction of new metrics intended to be used for practical applications involving large datasets necessitates a scalable software ecosystem which is a critical contribution of this paper. To this end we introduce a scalable flexible software framework that enables integration of several different metrics and provides mechanisms to evaluate and debug differences between segmentations. We also introduce visualization software to help users to consume the various metrics collected. We evaluate our framework on two relatively large public groundtruth datasets providing novel insights on example segmentations. Analyzing Image Segmentation for Connectomics.