Traumatic brain injury damages white matter pathways that connect brain regions disrupting transmission of electrochemical signals and causing cognitive and emotional dysfunction. Connectome-level mechanisms for how the brain compensates for injury have not been fully characterized. Here we collected serial MRI-based structural and functional connectome metrics and neuropsychological scores in 26 mild traumatic brain injury subjects 29.4\u2009\u20098.0\u2009years 20 males at 1 and 6\u2009months postinjury. We quantified the relationship between functional and structural connectomes using network diffusion ND model propagation time a measure that can be interpreted as how much of the structural connectome is being utilized for the spread of functional activation as captured via the functional connectome. Overall cognition showed significant improvement from 1 to 6\u2009months t25 = -2.15 p = .04. None of the structural or functional global connectome metrics was significantly different between 1 and 6\u2009months or when compared to 34 age- and gender-matched controls 28.6\u2009\u20098.8\u2009years 25 males. We predicted longitudinal changes in overall cognition from changes in global connectome measures using a partial least squares regression model cross-validated R2 = .27. We observe that increased ND model propagation time increased structural connectome segregation and increased functional connectome integration were related to better cognitive recovery. We interpret these findings as suggesting two connectome-based postinjury recovery mechanisms: one of neuroplasticity that increases functional connectome integration and one of remote white matter degeneration that increases structural connectome segregation. We hypothesize that our inherently multimodal measure of ND model propagation time captures the interplay between these two mechanisms. Longitudinal increases in structural connectome segregation and functional connectome integration are associated with better recovery after mild TBI.