Regeneration and repair is the ultimate goal of therapeutics in trauma of the central nervous system CNS. Stroke and spinal cord injury SCI are two highly prevalent CNS disorders that remain incurable despite numerous research studies and the clinical need for effective treatments. Neural engineering is a diverse biomedical field that addresses these diseases using new approaches. Research in the field involves principally rodent models and biologically active biodegradable hydrogels. Promising results have been reported in preclinical studies of CNS repair demonstrating the great potential for the development of new treatments for the brain spinal cord and peripheral nerve injury. Several obstacles stand in the way of clinical translation of neuroregeneration research. There seems to be a key gap in the translation of research from rodent models to human applications namely non-human primate models which constitute a critical bridging step. Applying injectable therapeutics and multimodal neuroimaging in stroke lesions using experimental rhesus monkey models is an avenue that a few research groups have begun to embark on. Understanding and assessing the changes that the injured brain or spinal cord undergoes after an intervention with biodegradable hydrogels in non-human primates seem to represent critical preclinical research steps. Existing innovative models in non-human primates allow us to evaluate the potential of neural engineering and injectable hydrogels. The results of these preliminary studies will pave the way for translating this research into much needed clinical therapeutic approaches. Cutting edge imaging technology using Connectome scanners represents a tremendous advancement enabling the in vivo detailed high-resolution evaluation of these therapeutic interventions in experimental animals. Most importantly they also allow quantifiable and clinically meaningful correlations with humans increasing the translatability of these innovations to the bedside. Advancing research in regeneration and repair of the motor circuitry: non-human primate models and imaging scales as the missing links for successfully translating injectable therapeutics to the clinic.