Simulations of visual impairment are used to educate and inform the public. However evidence regarding their accuracy remains lacking. Here we evaluated the effectiveness of modern digital technologies to simulate the everyday difficulties caused by glaucoma. 23 normally sighted adults performed two everyday tasks that glaucoma patients often report difficulties with: a visual search task in which participants attempted to locate a mobile phone in virtual domestic environments virtual reality VR and a visual mobility task in which participants navigated a physical room-scale environment while impairments were overlaid using augmented reality AR. On some trials a gaze-contingent simulated scotoma-generated using perimetric data from a real patient with advanced glaucoma-was presented in either the superior or inferior hemifield. The main outcome measure was task completion time. Eye and head movements were also tracked and used to assess individual differences in looking behaviors. The results showed that the simulated impairments substantially impaired performance in both the VR visual search and AR visual mobility tasks both P\u2009<\u20090.001. Furthermore and in line with previous patient data: impairments were greatest when the simulated Visual Field Loss VFL was inferior versus superior P\u2009<\u20090.001 participants made more eye and head movements in the inferior VFL condition P\u2009<\u20090.001 and participants rated the inferior VFL condition as more difficult P\u2009<\u20090.001. Notably the difference in performance between the inferior and superior conditions was almost as great as the difference between a superior VFL and no impairment at all VR: 71%; AR: 70%. We conclude that modern digital simulators are able to replicate and objectively quantify some of the key everyday difficulties associated with visual impairments. Advantages limitations and possible applications of current technologies are discussed. Instructions are also given for how to freely obtain the software described OpenVisSim. Seeing other perspectives: evaluating the use of virtual and augmented reality to simulate visual impairments OpenVisSim.