Cosmic evolution is the tale of progressive transition from simplicity to complexity. The newborn universe started with the simplest atoms formed after the Big Bang and proceeded toward the formation of the so-called \astronomical complex organic molecules\ aCOMs most of them showing a clear prebiotic character. Understanding the chemical evolution of the universe is one of the main aims of Astrochemistry with the starting point being the knowledge whether a molecule is present in the astronomical environment under consideration and if so its abundance. However the interpretation of astronomical detections and the identification of molecules are not at all straightforward. Indeed the extraterrestrial chemical inventory has been obtained by means of astronomical observations based on spectroscopic signatures determined in laboratory either experimental or computational studies. Even though the presence of aCOMs has been known for decades the processes that lead to their synthesis are still hotly debated or even unknown. It is often assumed that aCOMs are mostly synthesized on grain surfaces during the so-called warm-up phase when various radicals trapped in the grain mantles acquire mobility and recombine into large molecules. However recent detections of aCOMs in cold environments have challenged this exclusive role of grain-surface chemistry. Clearly gas-phase chemistry is at work in cold environments. Moving to Titan\s atmosphere prior to the Cassini-Huygens arrival in the Saturn system it was generally believed that Earth and interstellar space are the two places where organic molecules are/were synthesized extensively. However the experimental measurements by the instruments on board the Cassini orbiter spacecraft and the Huygens probe lander have changed this view. To disclose the "secrets" of chemical evolution across space the first step is the understanding of how small prebiotic species are formed and how the chemical complexity can further increase. This review indeed addresses the chemical evolution in space focusing - in particular - on the role played by molecular spectroscopy and quantum-chemical computations. To summarize in this review we will first of all present how the signatures of molecules can be found in space. Then we will address from a computational point of view the derivation of the molecular spectroscopic features the investigation of gas-phase formation routes of prebiotic species in the ISM and the evolution of chemical complexity from small molecules to haze in Titan\s atmosphere. Finally an integrated strategy also involving high-performance computers and virtual reality will be discussed. A never-ending story in the sky: The secrets of chemical evolution.