Resting-state brain activities have been extensively investigated to understand the macro-scale network architecture of the human brain using non-invasive imaging methods such as fMRI EEG and MEG. Previous studies revealed a mechanistic origin of resting-state networks RSNs using the connectome dynamics modeling approach where the neural mass dynamics model constrained by the structural connectivity is simulated to replicate the resting-state networks measured with fMRI and/or fast synchronization transitions with EEG/MEG. However there is still little understanding of the relationship between the slow fluctuations measured with fMRI and the fast synchronization transitions with EEG/MEG. In this study as a first step toward evaluating experimental evidence of resting state activity at two different time scales but in a unified way we investigate connectome dynamics models that simultaneously explain resting-state functional connectivity rsFC and EEG microstates. Here we introduce empirical rsFC and microstates as evaluation criteria of simulated neuronal dynamics obtained by the Larter-Breakspear model in one cortical region connected with those in other cortical regions based on structural connectivity. We optimized the global coupling strength and the local gain parameter variance of the excitatory and inhibitory threshold of the simulated neuronal dynamics by fitting both rsFC and microstate spatial patterns to those of experimental ones. As a result we found that simulated neuronal dynamics in a narrow optimal parameter range simultaneously reproduced empirical rsFC and microstates. Two parameter groups had different inter-regional interdependence. One type of dynamics was synchronized across the whole brain region and the other type was synchronized between brain regions with strong structural connectivity. In other words both fast synchronization transitions and slow BOLD fluctuation changed based on structural connectivity in the two parameter groups. Empirical microstates were similar to simulated microstates in the two parameter groups. Thus fast synchronization transitions correlated with slow BOLD fluctuation based on structural connectivity yielded characteristics of microstates. Our results demonstrate that a bottom-up approach which extends the single neuronal dynamics model based on empirical observations into a neural mass dynamics model and integrates structural connectivity effectively reveals both macroscopic fast and slow resting-state network dynamics. Evaluation of Resting Spatio-Temporal Dynamics of a Neural Mass Model Using Resting fMRI Connectivity and EEG Microstates.