A novel approach is presented for group statistical analysis of diffusion weighted MRI datasets through voxelwise Orientation Distribution Functions ODF. Recent advances in MRI acquisition make it possible to use high quality diffusion weighted protocols multi-shell large number of gradient directions for routine in vivo study of white matter architecture. The dimensionality of these data sets is however often reduced to simplify statistical analysis. While these approaches may detect large group differences they do not fully capitalize on all acquired image volumes. Incorporation of all available diffusion information in the analysis however risks biasing the outcome by outliers. Here we propose a statistical analysis method operating on the ODF either the diffusion ODF or fiber ODF. To avoid outlier bias and reliably detect voxelwise group differences and correlations with demographic or behavioral variables we apply the Low-Rank plus Sparse L+S matrix decomposition on the voxelwise ODFs which separates the sparse individual variability in the sparse matrix S whilst recovering the essential ODF features in the low-rank matrix L. We demonstrate the performance of this ODF L+S approach by replicating the established negative association between global white matter integrity and physical obesity in the Human Connectome dataset. The volume of positive findings p<0.01227cm3 agrees with and expands on the volume found by TBSS 17\u202fcm3 Connectivity based fixel enhancement 15\u202fcm3 and Connectometry 212\u202fcm3. In the same dataset we further localize the correlations of brain structure with neurocognitive measures such as fluid intelligence and episodic memory. The presented ODF L+S approach will aid in the full utilization of all acquired diffusion weightings leading to the detection of smaller group differences in clinically relevant settings as well as in neuroscience applications. Low Rank plus Sparse decomposition of ODFs for improved detection of group-level differences and variable correlations in white matter.