"Experiencing a body part as ones own i.e. body ownership depends on the integration of multisensory bodily signals including visual tactile and proprioceptive information with the visual top-down signals from peripersonal space. Although it has been shown that the visuo-spatial viewpoint from where the body is seen is an important visual top-down factor for body ownership different studies have reported diverging results. Furthermore the role of visuo-spatial viewpoint sometime also called first-person perspective has only been studied for hands or the whole body but not for the lower limbs. We thus investigated whether and how leg visuo-tactile integration and leg ownership depended on the visuo-spatial viewpoint from which the legs were seen and the anatomical similarity of the visual leg stimuli. Using a virtual leg illusion we tested the strength of visuo-tactile integration of leg stimuli using the crossmodal congruency effect CCE as well as the subjective sense of leg ownership assessed by a questionnaire. Fifteen participants viewed virtual legs or non-corporeal control objects presented either from their habitual first-person viewpoint or from a viewpoint that was rotated by 90third-person viewpoint while applying visuo-tactile stroking between the participants legs and the virtual legs shown on a head-mounted display. The data show that the first-person visuo-spatial viewpoint significantly boosts the visuo-tactile integration as well as the sense of leg ownership. Moreover the viewpoint-dependent increment of the visuo-tactile integration was only found in the conditions when participants viewed the virtual legs absent for control objects. These results confirm the importance of first person visuo-spatial viewpoint for the integration of visuo-tactile stimuli and extend findings from the upper extremity and the trunk to visuo-tactile integration and ownership for the legs." Those are Your Legs: The Effect of Visuo-Spatial Viewpoint on Visuo-Tactile Integration and Body Ownership.