"Avoidance is a common feature of post-traumatic stress disorder PTSD as well as anxiety and depressive disorders. Avoidance can be expressed behaviorally as well as cognitively. Most personality assessments for avoidance involve self-report inventories which are susceptible to biased responding. The avatar task Myers et al. 2016a was developed as an objective measure of behavioral inhibition BI which is defined as a tendency for avoidance of unfamiliar people and situations. The avatar task has been demonstrated to screen avoidant behaviors related to BI PTSD as well as harm avoidance HA as measured by the Tridimensional Personality Questionnaire TPQ. In the current work the avatar task was tested with cognitive as well as behavioral avoidance as measured by the cognitive-behavioral avoidance scale CBAS; Ottenbreit & Dobson 2004. The CBAS includes four subscales which measure behavioral social BS avoidance behavioral non-social BN avoidance cognitive social CS avoidance and cognitive non-social CN avoidance. It was hypothesized that avatar scores would be significantly positively related to behavioral but not cognitive avoidance. In addition it was also hypothesized that performance on the avatar task would be more related to social than non-social behavioral avoidance. Participants completed the avatar task the HA scale of the TPQ and the CBAS. Pearsons product moment correlations revealed that avatar scores were significantly related to CBAS total scores as well as BS and BN scores but not CS and CN scores. In addition BS has a stronger relationship with avatar scores than BN avoidance which fits with the social aspects of the scenarios in the avatar task. A median split of the avatar scores produced a significant difference in scores on the behavioral but not the cognitive subscales. Overall the current results supported the idea that the avatar task is measuring behavioral avoidance specifically in social situations rather than cognitive avoidance. Future work could adapt the avatar task to include scenarios similar to the cognitive items on the CBAS to create an objective measure of cognitive avoidance which may be relevant in measuring avoidance in depression and behavioral avoidance associated with PTSD as well as anxiety disorders." A computer-based avatar task designed to assess behavioral inhibition extends to behavioral avoidance but not cognitive avoidance.