For several decades Drosophila has been widely used as a suitable model organism to study the fundamental processes of associative olfactory learning and memory. More recently this condition also became true for the Drosophila larva which has become a focus for learning and memory studies based on a number of technical advances in the field of anatomical molecular and neuronal analyses. The ongoing efforts should be mentioned to reconstruct the complete connectome of the larval brain featuring a total of about 10000 neurons and the development of neurogenic tools that allow individual manipulation of each neuron. By contrast standardized behavioral assays that are commonly used to analyze learning and memory in Drosophila larvae exhibit no such technical development. Most commonly a simple assay with Petri dishes and odor containers is used; in this method the animals must be manually transferred in several steps. The behavioral approach is therefore labor-intensive and limits the capacity to conduct large-scale genetic screenings in small laboratories. To circumvent these limitations we introduce a training device called the Maggot Instructor. This device allows automatic training up to 10 groups of larvae in parallel. To achieve such goal we used fully automated computer-controlled optogenetic activation of single olfactory neurons in combination with the application of electric shocks. We showed that Drosophila larvae trained with the Maggot Instructor establish an odor-specific memory which is independent of handling and non-associative effects. The Maggot Instructor will allow to investigate the large collections of genetically modified larvae in a short period and with minimal human resources. Therefore the Maggot Instructor should be able to help extensive behavioral experiments in Drosophila larvae to keep up with the current technical advancements. In the longer term this condition will lead to a better understanding of how learning and memory are organized at the cellular synaptic and molecular levels in Drosophila larvae. Maggot Instructor: Semi-Automated Analysis of Learning and Memory in Drosophila Larvae.