Dopamine DA levels in the striatum are increased by many therapeutic drugs such as methylphenidate MPH which also alters behavioral and cognitive functions thought to be controlled by the PFC dose-dependently. We linked DA changes and functional connectivity FC using simultaneous 18Ffallypride PET and resting-state fMRI in awake male rhesus monkeys after oral administration of various doses of MPH. We found a negative correlation between 18Ffallypride nondisplaceable binding potential BPND and MPH dose in the head of the caudate hCd demonstrating increased extracellular DA resulting from MPH administration. The decreased BPND was negatively correlated with FC between the hCd and the PFC. Subsequent voxelwise analyses revealed negative correlations with FC between the hCd and the dorsolateral PFC hippocampus and precuneus. These results showing that MPH-induced changes in DA levels in the hCd predict resting-state FC shed light on a mechanism by which changes in striatal DA could influence function in the PFC.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT Dopamine transmission is thought to play an essential role in shaping large scale-neural networks that underlie cognitive functions. It is the target of therapeutic drugs such as methylphenidate Ritalin which blocks the dopamine transporter thereby increasing extracellular dopamine levels. Methylphenidate is used extensively to treat attention deficit hyperactivity disorder even though its effects on cognitive functions and their underlying neural mechanisms are not well understood. To date little is known about the link between changes in dopamine levels and changes in functional brain organization. Using simultaneous PET/MR imaging we show that methylphenidate-induced changes in endogenous dopamine levels in the head of the caudate predict changes in resting-state functional connectivity between this structure and the prefrontal cortex precuneus and hippocampus. Changes in Endogenous Dopamine Induced by Methylphenidate Predict Functional Connectivity in Nonhuman Primates.