"Intravenous contrast agent-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging of the endolymphatic space ELS of the inner ear permits direct in-vivo non-invasive visualization of labyrinthine structures and thus verification of endolymphatic hydrops ELH. However current volumetric assessment approaches lack normalization. The aim of this study was to develop a probabilistic atlas of the inner ears bony labyrinth as a first step towards an automated and reproducible volume-based quantification of the ELS. The study included three different datasets: a source dataset D1 to build the probabilistic atlas and two testing sets D2 D3. D1 included 24 right-handed patients 12 females; mean age 51.5\u2009\u20093.9\xa0years and D2 5 patients 3 female; mean age 48.8\u2009\u20095.01\xa0years with vestibular migraine without ELH or any measurable vestibular deficits. D3 consisted of five patients one female; mean age 46\u2009\u20095.2\xa0years suffering from unilateral Menires disease and ELH. Data processing comprised three steps: preprocessing using an affine and deformable fusion registration pipeline computation of an atlas for the left and right inner ear using a label-assisted approach and validation of the atlas based on localizing and segmenting previously unseen ears. The three-dimensional probabilistic atlas of the inner ears bony labyrinth consisted of the internal acoustic meatus and inner ears including cochlea otoliths and semicircular canals for both sides separately. The analyses showed a high level of agreement between the atlas-based segmentation and the manual gold standard with an overlap of 89% for the right ear and 86% for the left ear measured by dice scores. This probabilistic in vivo atlas of the human inner ears bony labyrinth and thus of the inner ears total fluid space for both ears represents a necessary step towards a normalized easily reproducible and reliable volumetric quantification of the perilymphatic and endolymphatic space in view of MR volumetric assessment of ELH. The proposed atlas lays the groundwork for state-of-the-art approaches e.g. deep learning and will be provided to the scientific community." "A probabilistic atlas of the human inner ears bony labyrinth enables reliable atlas-based segmentation of the total fluid space."