Nicotine has been shown to enhance the reinforcement and reward-responsiveness of non-nicotine stimuli. To determine whether nicotine enhances the strength of conditioning to context undergraduate participants with varying levels of nicotine dependence were recruited for a two-day study and tested on a virtual reality VR conditioned place preference CPP paradigm. On day one participants explored two virtual rooms where they received multiple pairings of M&M rewards in one room and no rewards in the other room followed by a free-access test session with no rewards. On day two participants received three test sessions to assess extinction. Subsequently participants received M&Ms. in a novel context and were then tested for reinstatement. Prior to testing on each day subjects were administered either nicotine 4mg or placebo lozenges in a between-subjects four-group 22 design nicotine or placebo on days 1 and 2. After conditioning on day one only participants who received placebo exhibited a CPP by spending significantly more time in the room previously-paired with M&Ms. Contrary to our hypothesis nicotine-treated participants did not display a significant CPP and there were no significant differences between treatment groups. However post hoc analysis indicated that in a subset of participants with greater nicotine dependence the nicotine group displayed a CPP by rating the M&M-paired room as significantly more enjoyable than those who received placebo. Additionally while neither treatment group showed significant place preferences during the first two extinction sessions on Day 2 individuals who received nicotine on Day 1 or placebo on Day 2 spent significantly more time in the M&M-paired room during the final extinction session. Finally those who received nicotine on Day 2 exhibited significantly greater reinstatement compared to placebo-treated participants. These results partially support preclinical evidence that nicotine can affect learning extinction and reinstatement. The effects of nicotine on conditioning extinction and reinstatement in humans.