"Event-related potentials ERPs are widely used in brain-computer interface applications and in neuroscience. \xa0Normal EEG activity is rich in background noise and therefore in order to detect ERPs it is usually necessary to take the average from multiple trials to reduce the effects of this noise.\xa0 The noise produced by EEG activity itself is not correlated with the ERP waveform and so by calculating the average the noise is decreased by a factor inversely proportional to the square root of N where N is the number of averaged epochs. This is the easiest strategy currently used to detect ERPs which is based on calculating the average of all ERPs waveform these waveforms being time- and phase-locked. \xa0In this paper a new method called GW6 is proposed which calculates the ERP using a mathematical method based only on Pearsons correlation. The result is a graph with the same time resolution as the classical ERP and which shows only positive peaks representing the increase-in consonance with the stimuli-in EEG signal correlation over all channels. \xa0This new method is also useful for selectively identifying and highlighting some hidden components of the ERP response that are not phase-locked and that are usually hidden in the standard and simple method based on the averaging of all the epochs. \xa0These hidden components seem to be caused by variations between each successive stimulus of the ERPs inherent phase latency period jitter although the same stimulus across all EEG channels produces a reasonably constant phase. For this reason this new method could be very helpful to investigate these hidden components of the ERP response and to develop applications for scientific and medical purposes. Moreover this new method is more resistant to EEG artifacts than the standard calculations of the average and could be very useful in research and neurology. \xa0The method we are proposing can be directly used in the form of a process written in the well-known Matlab programming language and can be easily and quickly written in any other software language." "A new method to detect event-related potentials based on Pearsons correlation."