"Introduction: While the prevalence of neurodegenerative diseases associated with dementia such as Alzheimers disease AD increases our knowledge on the underlying mechanisms outcome predictors or therapeutic targets is limited. In this work we demonstrate how computational multi-scale brain modeling links phenomena of different scales and therefore identifies potential disease mechanisms leading the way to improved diagnostics and treatment. Methods: The Virtual Brain TVB; thevirtualbrain.org neuroinformatics platform allows standardized large-scale structural connectivity-based simulations of whole brain dynamics. We provide proof of concept for a novel approach that quantitatively links the effects of altered molecular pathways onto neuronal population dynamics. As a novelty we connect chemical compounds measured with positron emission tomography PET with neural function in TVB addressing the phenomenon of hyperexcitability in AD related to the protein amyloid beta Abeta. We construct personalized virtual brains based on an averaged healthy connectome and individual PET derived distributions of Abeta in patients with mild cognitive impairment MCI N = 8 and Alzheimers Disease AD N = 10 and in age-matched healthy controls HC N = 15 using data from ADNI-3 data base http://adni.loni.usc.edu. In the personalized virtual brains individual Abeta burden modulates regional Excitation-Inhibition balance leading to local hyperexcitation with high Abeta loads. We analyze simulated regional neural activity and electroencephalograms EEG. Results: Known empirical alterations of EEG in patients with AD compared to HCs were reproduced by simulations. The virtual AD group showed slower frequencies in simulated local field potentials and EEG compared to MCI and HC groups. The heterogeneity of the Abeta load is crucial for the virtual EEG slowing which is absent for control models with homogeneous Abeta distributions. Slowing phenomena primarily affect the network hubs independent of the spatial distribution of Abeta. Modeling the N-methyl-D-aspartate NMDA receptor antagonism of memantine in local population models reveals potential functional reversibility of the observed large-scale alterations reflected by EEG slowing in virtual AD brains. Discussion: We demonstrate how TVB enables the simulation of systems effects caused by pathogenetic molecular candidate mechanisms in human virtual brains." "Linking Molecular Pathways and Large-Scale Computational Modeling to Assess Candidate Disease Mechanisms and Pharmacodynamics in Alzheimers Disease."