Finger-vein recognition a new and advanced biometrics recognition method is attracting the attention of researchers because of its advantages such as high recognition performance and lesser likelihood of theft and inaccuracies occurring on account of skin condition defects. However as reported by previous researchers it is possible to attack a finger-vein recognition system by using presentation attack fake finger-vein images. As a result spoof detection named as presentation attack detection PAD is necessary in such recognition systems. Previous attempts to establish PAD methods primarily focused on designing feature extractors by hand handcrafted feature extractor based on the observations of the researchers about the difference between real live and presentation attack finger-vein images. Therefore the detection performance was limited. Recently the deep learning framework has been successfully applied in computer vision and delivered superior results compared to traditional handcrafted methods on various computer vision applications such as image-based face recognition gender recognition and image classification. In this paper we propose a PAD method for near-infrared NIR camera-based finger-vein recognition system using convolutional neural network CNN to enhance the detection ability of previous handcrafted methods. Using the CNN method we can derive a more suitable feature extractor for PAD than the other handcrafted methods using a training procedure. We further process the extracted image features to enhance the presentation attack finger-vein image detection ability of the CNN method using principal component analysis method PCA for dimensionality reduction of feature space and support vector machine SVM for classification. Through extensive experimental results we confirm that our proposed method is adequate for presentation attack finger-vein image detection and it can deliver superior detection results compared to CNN-based methods and other previous handcrafted methods. Spoof Detection for Finger-Vein Recognition System Using NIR Camera.