Neurocognitive dysfunction is common in survivors of intensive care. Prolonged sedation has been implicated but the mechanisms are unclear. Neurogenesis continues into adulthood and is implicated in learning. The neural progenitor cells NPC that drive neurogenesis have receptors for the major classes of sedatives used clinically suggesting that interruption of neurogenesis may partly contribute to cognitive decline in ICU survivors. Using an in vitro system we tested the hypothesis that prolonged exposure to propofol concentration- and duration-dependently kills or markedly decreases the proliferation of NPCs. NPCs isolated from embryonic day 14 Sprague-Dawley rat pups were exposed to 0 2.5 or 5.0 g/mL of propofol concentrations consistent with deep clinical anesthesia for either 4 or 24 hours. Cells were assayed for cell death and proliferation either immediately following propofol exposure or 24 hours later. NPC death and apoptosis were measured by propidium iodine staining and cleaved caspase-3 immunocytochemistry respectively while proliferation was measured by EdU incorporation. Staurosporine 1M for 6h was used as a positive control for cell death. Cells were analyzed with unbiased high-throughput immunocytochemistry. There was no cell death at either concentration of propofol or duration of exposure. Neither concentration of propofol impaired NPC proliferation when exposure lasted 4 h but when exposure lasted 24 h propofol had an anti-proliferative effect at both concentrations P < 0.0001 propofol vs. control. However this effect was transient; proliferation returned to baseline 24 h after discontinuation of propofol P = 0.37 propofol vs. control. The transient but reversible suppression of NPC proliferation absence of cytotoxicity and negligible effect on the neural stem cell pool pool suggest that propofol even in concentrations used for clinical anesthesia has limited impact on neural progenitor cell biology. Prolonged Treatment with Propofol Transiently Impairs Proliferation but Not Survival of Rat Neural Progenitor Cells In Vitro.