"Strokes surgeries or degenerative diseases can impair motor abilities and balance. Long-term rehabilitation is often the only way to recover as completely as possible these lost skills. To be effective this type of rehabilitation should follow three main rules. First rehabilitation exercises should be able to keep patients motivation high. Second each exercise should be customizable depending on patients needs. Third patients performance should be evaluated objectively i.e. by measuring patients movements with respect to an optimal reference model. To meet the just reported requirements in this paper an interactive and low-cost full body rehabilitation framework for the generation of 3D immersive serious games is proposed. The framework combines two Natural User Interfaces NUIs for hand and body modeling respectively and a Head Mounted Display HMD to provide the patient with an interactive and highly defined Virtual Environment VE for playing with stimulating rehabilitation exercises. The paper presents the overall architecture of the framework including the environment for the generation of the pilot serious games and the main features of the used hand and body models. The effectiveness of the proposed system is shown on a group of ninety-two patients. In a first stage a pool of seven rehabilitation therapists has evaluated the results of the patients on the basis of three reference rehabilitation exercises confirming a significant gradual recovery of the patients skills. Moreover the feedbacks received by the therapists and patients who have used the system have pointed out remarkable results in terms of motivation usability and customization. In a second stage by comparing the current state-of-the-art in rehabilitation area with the proposed system we have observed that the latter can be considered a concrete contribution in terms of versatility immersivity and novelty. In a final stage by training a Gated Recurrent Unit Recurrent Neural Network GRU-RNN with healthy subjects i.e. baseline we have also provided a reference model to objectively evaluate the degree of the patients performance. To estimate the effectiveness of this last aspect of the proposed approach we have used the NTU RGB\u202f+\u202fD Action Recognition dataset obtaining comparable results with the current literature in action recognition." An interactive and low-cost full body rehabilitation framework based on 3D immersive serious games.