"Brain-computer interfaces BCIs allow a user to interact with a computer system using thought. However only recently have devices capable of providing sophisticated multi-dimensional control been achieved non-invasively. A major goal for non-invasive BCI systems has been to provide continuous intuitive and accurate control while retaining a high level of user autonomy. By employing electroencephalography EEG to record and decode sensorimotor rhythms SMRs induced from motor imaginations a consistent user-specific control signal may be characterized. Utilizing a novel method of interactive and continuous control we trained three normal subjects to modulate their SMRs to achieve three-dimensional movement of a virtual helicopter that is fast accurate and continuous. In this system the virtual helicopters forward-backward translation and elevation controls were actuated through the modulation of sensorimotor rhythms that were converted to forces applied to the virtual helicopter at every simulation time step and the helicopters angle of left or right rotation was linearly mapped with higher resolution from sensorimotor rhythms associated with other motor imaginations. These different resolutions of control allow for interplay between general intent actuation and fine control as is seen in the gross and fine movements of the arm and hand. Subjects controlled the helicopter with the goal of flying through rings targets randomly positioned and oriented in a three-dimensional space. The subjects flew through rings continuously acquiring as many as 11 consecutive rings within a five-minute period. In total the study group successfully acquired over 85% of presented targets. These results affirm the effective three-dimensional control of our motor imagery based BCI system and suggest its potential applications in biological navigation neuroprosthetics and other applications." Continuous three-dimensional control of a virtual helicopter using a motor imagery based brain-computer interface.