Virtual reality VR is gaining recognition for its enormous educational potential. While not yet in the mainstream of academic medical training many prototype and first-generation VR applications are emerging with target audiences ranging from first- and second-year medical students to residents in advanced clinical training. Visualization tools that take advantage of VR technologies are being designed to provide engaging and intuitive environments for learning visually and spatially complex topics such as human anatomy biochemistry and molecular biology. These applications present dynamic three-dimensional views of structures and their spatial relationships enabling users to move beyond "real-world" experiences by interacting with or altering virtual objects in ways that would otherwise be difficult or impossible. VR-based procedural and surgical simulations often compared with flight simulators in aviation hold significant promise for revolutionizing medical training. Already a wide range of simulations representing diverse content areas and utilizing a variety of implementation strategies are either under development or in their early implementation stages. These new systems promise to make broad-based training experiences available for students at all levels without the risks and ethical concerns typically associated with using animal and human subjects. Medical students could acquire proficiency and gain confidence in the ability to perform a wide variety of techniques long before they need to use them clinically. Surgical residents could rehearse and refine operative procedures using an unlimited pool of virtual patients manifesting a wide range of anatomic variations traumatic wounds and disease states. Those simulated encounters in combination with existing opportunities to work with real patients could increase the depth and breadth of learners\ exposure to medical problems ensure uniformity of training experiences and enhance the acquisition of clinical skills. Virtual reality: teaching tool of the twenty-first century?