Attributes are semantically meaningful characteristics whose applicability widely crosses category boundaries. They are particularly important in describing and recognizing concepts for which no explicit training example is given e.g. zero-shot learning. Additionally since attributes are human describable they can be used for efficient human-computer interaction. In this paper we propose to employ semantic segmentation to improve person-related attribute prediction. The core idea lies in the fact that many attributes describe local properties. In other words the probability of an attribute to appear in an image is far from being uniform in the spatial domain. We build our attribute prediction model jointly with a deep semantic segmentation network. This harnesses the localization cues learned by the semantic segmentation to guide the attention of the attribute prediction to the regions where different attributes naturally show up. As a result of this approach in addition to prediction we are able to localize the attributes despite merely having access to image-level labels weak supervision during training. We first propose semantic segmentation-based pooling and gating respectively denoted as SSP and SSG. In the former the estimated segmentation masks are used to pool the final activations of the attribute prediction network from multiple semantically homogeneous regions. This is in contrast to global average pooling which is agnostic with respect to where in the spatial domain activations occur. In SSG the same idea is applied to the intermediate layers of the network. Specifically we create multiple copies of the internal activations. In each copy only values that fall within a certain semantic region are preserved while outside of that activations are suppressed. This mechanism allows us to prevent pooling operation from blending activations that are associated with semantically different regions. SSP and SSG while effective impose heavy memory utilization since each channel of the activations is pooled/gated with all the semantic segmentation masks. To circumvent this we propose Symbiotic Augmentation SA where we learn only one mask per activation channel. SA allows the model to either pick one or combine weighted superposition multiple semantic maps in order to generate the proper mask for each channel. SA simultaneously applies the same mechanism to the reverse problem by leveraging output logits of attribute prediction to guide the semantic segmentation task. We evaluate our proposed methods for facial attributes on CelebA and LFWA datasets while benchmarking WIDER Attribute and Berkeley Attributes of People for whole body attributes. Our proposed methods achieve superior results compared to the previous works. Furthermore we show that in the reverse problem semantic face parsing significantly improves when its associated task is jointly learned through our proposed Symbiotic Augmentation with facial attribute prediction. We confirm that when few training instances are available indeed image-level facial attribute labels can serve as an effective source of weak supervision to improve semantic face parsing. That reaffirms the need to jointly model these two interconnected tasks. On Symbiosis of Attribute Prediction and Semantic Segmentation.