Unlike medical computed tomography CT dental CT often suffers from severe metal artifacts stemming from high-density materials employed for dental prostheses. Despite the many metal artifact reduction MAR methods available for medical CT those methods do not sufficiently reduce metal artifacts in dental CT images because MAR performance is often compromised by the enamel layer of teeth whose X-ray attenuation coefficient is not so different from that of prosthetic materials. We propose a deep learning-based metal segmentation method on the projection domain to improve MAR performance in dental CT. We adopted a simplified U-net for metal segmentation on the projection domain without using any information from the metal-artifacts-corrupted CT images. After training the network with the projection data of five patients we segmented the metal objects on the projection data of other patients using the trained network parameters. With the segmentation results we corrected the projection data by applying region filling inside the segmented region. We fused two CT images one from the corrected projection data and the other from the original raw projection data and then we forward-projected the fused CT image to get the fused projection data. To get the final corrected projection data we replaced the metal regions in the original projection data with the ones in the fused projection data. To evaluate the efficacy of the proposed segmentation method on MAR we compared the MAR performance of the proposed segmentation method with a conventional MAR method based on metal segmentation on the CT image domain. For the MAR performance evaluation we considered the three primary MAR performance metrics: the relative error REL the sum of square difference SSD and the normalized absolute difference NAD. The proposed segmentation method improved MAR performances by around 5.7% for REL 6.8% for SSD and 8.2% for NAD. The proposed metal segmentation method on the projection domain showed better MAR performance than the conventional segmentation on the CT image domain. We expect that the proposed segmentation method can improve the performance of the existing MAR methods that are based on metal segmentation on the CT image domain. U-net based metal segmentation on projection domain for metal artifact reduction in dental CT.