"Machine learning based predictions of proteinprotein interactions PPIs could provide valuable insights into protein functions disease occurrence and therapy design on a large scale. The intensive feature engineering in most of these methods makes the prediction task more tedious and trivial. The emerging deep learning technology enabling automatic feature engineering is gaining great success in various fields. However the over-fitting and generalization of its models are not yet well investigated in most scenarios. Here we present a deep neural network framework DNN-PPI for predicting PPIs using features learned automatically only from protein primary sequences. Within the framework the sequences of two interacting proteins are sequentially fed into the encoding embedding convolution neural network CNN and long short-term memory LSTM neural network layers. Then a concatenated vector of the two outputs from the previous layer is wired as the input of the fully connected neural network. Finally the Adam optimizer is applied to learn the network weights in a back-propagation fashion. The different types of features including semantic associations between amino acids position-related sequence segments motif and their long- and short-term dependencies are captured in the embedding CNN and LSTM layers respectively. When the model was trained on Pans human PPI dataset it achieved a prediction accuracy of 98.78% at the Matthews correlation coefficient MCC of 97.57%. The prediction accuracies for six external datasets ranged from 92.80% to 97.89% making them superior to those achieved with previous methods. When performed on Escherichia coli Drosophila and Caenorhabditis elegans datasets DNN-PPI obtained prediction accuracies of 95.949% 98.389% and 98.669% respectively. The performances in cross-species testing among the four species above coincided in their evolutionary distances. However when testing Mus Musculus using the models from those species they all obtained prediction accuracies of over 92.43% which is difficult to achieve and worthy of note for further study. These results suggest that DNN-PPI has remarkable generalization and is a promising tool for identifying protein interactions." Deep Neural Network Based Predictions of Protein Interactions Using Primary Sequences.