"Visual ERP P300 based brain-computer interfaces BCIs allow for fast and reliable spelling and are intended as a muscle-independent communication channel for people with severe paralysis. However they require the presentation of visual stimuli in the field of view of the user. A head-mounted display could allow convenient presentation of visual stimuli in situations where mounting a conventional monitor might be difficult or not feasible e.g. at a patients bedside. To explore if similar accuracies can be achieved with a virtual reality VR headset compared to a conventional flat screen monitor we conducted an experiment with 18 healthy participants. We also evaluated it with a person in the locked-in state LIS to verify that usage of the headset is possible for a severely paralyzed person. Healthy participants performed online spelling with three different display methods. In one condition a 5  5 letter matrix was presented on a conventional 22 inch TFT monitor. Two configurations of the VR headset were tested. In the first glasses A the same 5  5 matrix filled the field of view of the user. In the second glasses B single letters of the matrix filled the field of view of the user. The participant in the LIS tested the VR headset on three different occasions glasses A condition only. For healthy participants average online spelling accuracies were 94% 15.5 bits/min using three flash sequences for spelling with the monitor and glasses A and 96% 16.2 bits/min with glasses B. In one session the participant in the LIS reached an online spelling accuracy of 100% 10 bits/min using the glasses A condition. We also demonstrated that spelling with one flash sequence is possible with the VR headset for healthy users mean: 32.1 bits/min maximum reached by one user: 71.89 bits/min at 100% accuracy. We conclude that the VR headset allows for rapid P300 BCI communication in healthy users and may be a suitable display option for severely paralyzed persons." Rapid P300 brain-computer interface communication with a head-mounted display.