"Electronic health records EHRs contain critical information useful for clinical studies. Early assessment of patients mortality in intensive care units is of great importance. In this paper a Deep Rule-Based Fuzzy System DRBFS was proposed to develop an accurate in-hospital mortality prediction in the intensive care unit ICU patients employing a large number of input variables. Our main contribution is proposing a system which is capable of dealing with big data with heterogeneous mixed categorical and numeric attributes. In DRBFS the hidden layer in each unit is represented by interpretable fuzzy rules. Benefiting the strength of soft partitioning a modified supervised fuzzy k-prototype clustering has been employed for fuzzy rule generation. According to the stacked approach the same input space is kept in every base building unit of DRBFS. The training set in addition to random shifts obtained from random projections of prediction results of the current base building unit is presented as the input of the next base building unit. A cohort of 10972 adult admissions was selected from Medical Information Mart for Intensive Care MIMIC-III data set where 9.31% of patients have died in the hospital. A heterogeneous feature set of first 48\u202fh from ICU admissions were extracted for in-hospital mortality rate. Required preprocessing and appropriate feature extraction were applied. To avoid biased assessments performance indexes were calculated using holdout validation. We have evaluated our proposed method with several common classifiers including nave Bayes NB decision trees DT Gradient Boosting GB Deep Belief Networks DBN and D-TSK-FC. The area under the receiver operating characteristics curve AUROC for NB DT GB DBN D-TSK-FC and our proposed method were 73.51% 61.81% 72.98% 70.07% 66.74% and 73.90% respectively. Our results have demonstrated that DRBFS outperforms various methods while maintaining interpretable rule bases. Besides benefiting from specific clustering methods DRBFS can be well scaled up for large heterogeneous data sets." Mortality prediction in intensive care units ICUs using a deep rule-based fuzzy classifier.