"Todays virtual reality VR applications such as gaming multisensory entertainment remote dining and online shopping are mainly based on audio visual and touch interactions between humans and virtual worlds. Integrating the sense of taste into VR is difficult since humans are dependent on chemical-based taste delivery systems. This paper presents the Thermal Taste Machine a new digital taste actuation technology that can effectively produce and modify thermal taste sensations on the tongue. It modifies the temperature of the surface of the tongue within a short period of time from 25C to 40 C while heating and from 25C to 10 C while cooling. We tested this device on human subjects and described the experience of thermal taste using 20 known taste and non-taste sensations. Our results suggested that rapidly heating the tongue produces sweetness fatty/oiliness electric taste warmness and reduces the sensibility for metallic taste. Similarly cooling the tongue produced mint taste pleasantness and coldness. By conducting another user study on the perceived sweetness of sucrose solutions after the thermal stimulation we found that heating the tongue significantly enhances the intensity of sweetness for both thermal tasters and non-thermal tasters. Also we found that faster temperature rises on the tongue produce more intense sweet sensations for thermal tasters. This technology will be useful in two ways: First it can produce taste sensations without using chemicals for the individuals who are sensitive to thermal taste. Second the temperature rise of the device can be used as a way to enhance the intensity of sweetness. We believe that this technology can be used to digitally produce and enhance taste sensations in future virtual reality applications. The key novelties of this paper are as follows: 1. Development of a thermal taste actuation technology for stimulating the human taste receptors 2. Characterization of the thermal taste produced by the device using taste-related sensations and non-taste related sensations 3. Research on enhancing the intensity for sucrose solutions using thermal stimulation 4. Research on how different speeds of heating affect the intensity of sweetness produced by thermal stimulation." New Thermal Taste Actuation Technology for Future Multisensory Virtual Reality and Internet.