Recent advances in neuroscience have paved the way to innovative applications that cognitively augment and enhance humans in a variety of contexts. This paper aims at providing a snapshot of the current state of the art and a motivated forecast of the most likely developments in the next two decades. Firstly we survey the main neuroscience technologies for both observing and influencing brain activity which are necessary ingredients for human cognitive augmentation. We also compare and contrast such technologies as their individual characteristics e.g. spatio-temporal resolution invasiveness portability energy requirements and cost influence their current and future role in human cognitive augmentation. Secondly we chart the state of the art on neurotechnologies for human cognitive augmentation keeping an eye both on the applications that already exist and those that are emerging or are likely to emerge in the next two decades. Particularly we consider applications in the areas of communication cognitive enhancement memory attention monitoring/enhancement situation awareness and complex problem solving and we look at what fraction of the population might benefit from such technologies and at the demands they impose in terms of user training. Thirdly we briefly review the ethical issues associated with current neuroscience technologies. These are important because they may differentially influence both present and future research on and adoption of neurotechnologies for human cognitive augmentation: an inferior technology with no significant ethical issues may thrive while a superior technology causing widespread ethical concerns may end up being outlawed. Finally based on the lessons learned in our analysis using past trends and considering other related forecasts we attempt to forecast the most likely future developments of neuroscience technology for human cognitive augmentation and provide informed recommendations for promising future research and exploitation avenues. Neurotechnologies for Human Cognitive Augmentation: Current State of the Art and Future Prospects.