Network interactions are likely to be instrumental in processes underlying rapid perception and cognition. Specifically high-level and perceptual regions must interact to balance pre-existing models of the environment with new incoming stimuli. Simultaneous electroencephalography EEG and fMRI EEG/fMRI enables temporal characterization of brain-network interactions combined with improved anatomical localization of regional activity. In this paper we use simultaneous EEG/fMRI and multivariate dynamical systems MDS analysis to characterize network relationships between constitute brain areas that reflect a subject\s choice for a face versus nonface categorization task. Our simultaneous EEG and fMRI analysis on 21 human subjects 12 males 9 females identifies early perceptual and late frontal subsystems that are selective to the categorical choice of faces versus nonfaces. We analyze the interactions between these subsystems using an MDS in the space of the BOLD signal. Our main findings show that differences between face-choice and house-choice networks are seen in the network interactions between the early and late subsystems and that the magnitude of the difference in network interaction positively correlates with the behavioral false-positive rate of face choices. We interpret this to reflect the role of saliency and expectations likely encoded in frontal "late" regions on perceptual processes occurring in "early" perceptual regions.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT Our choices are affected by our biases. In visual perception and cognition such biases can be commonplace and quite curious-e.g. we see a human face when staring up at a cloud formation or down at a piece of toast at the breakfast table. Here we use multimodal neuroimaging and dynamical systems analysis to measure whole-brain spatiotemporal dynamics while subjects make decisions regarding the type of object they see in rapidly flashed images. We find that the degree of interaction in these networks accounts for a substantial fraction of our bias to see faces. In general our findings illustrate how the properties of spatiotemporal networks yield insight into the mechanisms of how we form decisions. Network Configurations in the Human Brain Reflect Choice Bias during Rapid Face Processing.