"Flexible functional interactions among brain regions mediate critical cognitive functions. Such interactions can be measured using functional magnetic resonance imaging fMRI data either with instantaneous zero-lag or lag-based time-lagged functional connectivity. Because the fMRI hemodynamic response is slow and sampled at a timescale seconds several orders of magnitude slower than the underlying neural dynamics milliseconds simulation studies have shown that lag-based fMRI functional connectivity measured with approaches like Granger-Geweke causality GC provides spurious and unreliable estimates of underlying neural interactions. Experimental verification of this claim is challenging because neural ground truth connectivity is often unavailable concurrently with fMRI recordings. Here we demonstrate that despite these widely-held caveats GC networks estimated from fMRI recordings contain useful information for classifying task specific cognitive states. We estimated instantaneous and lag-based GC functional connectivity networks using fMRI data from 1000 participants Human Connectome Project database. A linear classifier trained on either instantaneous or lag-based GC reliably discriminated among seven different task and resting brain states with over 80% cross-validation accuracy. With network simulations we demonstrate that instantaneous and lag-based GC exploited interactions at fast and slow timescales respectively to achieve robust classification. With human fMRI data instantaneous and lag-based GC identified complementary task-core networks. Finally variations in GC connectivity explained inter-individual variations in a variety of cognitive scores. Our findings show that instantaneous and lag-based methods reveal complementary aspects of functional connectivity in the brain and suggest that slow directed functional interactions estimated with fMRI may provide useful markers of behaviorally relevant cognitive states.Significance statement Functional MRI is a leading non-invasive technique for mapping functionally connected networks in the human brain. The fMRI hemodynamic response is slow noisy and sampled far more slowly seconds than the timescale of neuronal spikes milliseconds. fMRI data is therefore considered unsuitable for mapping directed time-lagged functional connectivity among brain regions. Here we apply machine learning to fMRI data from 1000 human participants and show that directed connectivity estimated with Granger-Geweke Causality from fMRI data accurately predicts task-specific cognitive states and individual subjects behavioral scores. Moreover directed connectivity robustly identifies network configurations that may be challenging to identify with conventional correlation-based approaches. Directed functional connectivity as measured with fMRI may be relevant for a complete understanding of brain function." Decoding task-specific cognitive states with slow directed functional networks in the human brain.