The challenge of person re-identification re-id is to match individual images of the same person captured by different non-overlapping camera views against significant and unknown cross-view feature distortion. While a large number of distance metric/subspace learning models have been developed for re-id the cross-view transformations they learned are view-generic and thus potentially less effective in quantifying the feature distortion inherent to each camera view. Learning view-specific feature transformations for re-id i.e. view-specific re-id an under-studied approach becomes an alternative resort for this problem. In this work we formulate a novel view-specific person re-identification framework from the feature augmentation point of view called Camera coR relation Aware Feature augmenTation CRAFT. Specifically CRAFT performs cross-view adaptation by automatically measuring camera correlation from cross-view visual data distribution and adaptively conducting feature augmentation to transform the original features into a new adaptive space. Through our augmentation framework view-generic learning algorithms can be readily generalized to learn and optimize view-specific sub-models whilst simultaneously modelling view-generic discrimination information. Therefore our framework not only inherits the strength of view-generic model learning but also provides an effective way to take into account view specific characteristics. Our CRAFT framework can be extended to jointly learn view-specific feature transformations for person re-id across a large network with more than two cameras a largely under-investigated but realistic re-id setting. Additionally we present a domain-generic deep person appearance representation which is designed particularly to be towards view invariant for facilitating cross-view adaptation by CRAFT. We conducted extensively comparative experiments to validate the superiority and advantages of our proposed framework over state-of-the-art competitors on contemporary challenging person re-id datasets. Person Re-Identification by Camera Correlation Aware Feature Augmentation.