Structural brain networks estimated from diffusion MRI dMRI via tractography have been widely studied in healthy controls and patients with neurological and psychiatric diseases. However few studies have addressed the reliability of derived network metrics both node-specific and network-wide. Different network weighting strategies NWS can be adopted to weight the strength of connection between two nodes yielding structural brain networks that are almost fully-weighted. Here we scanned five healthy participants five times each using a diffusion-weighted MRI protocol and computed edges between 90 regions of interest ROI from the Automated Anatomical Labeling AAL template. The edges were weighted according to nine different methods. We propose a linear combination of these nine NWS into a single graph using an appropriate diffusion distance metric. We refer to the resulting weighted graph as an Integrated Weighted Structural Brain Network ISWBN. Additionally we consider a topological filtering scheme that maximizes the information flow in the brain network under the constraint of the overall cost of the surviving connections. We compared each of the nine NWS and the ISWBN based on the improvement of: a intra-class correlation coefficient ICC of well-known network metrics both node-wise and per network level; and b the recognition accuracy of each subject compared to the remainder of the cohort as an attempt to access the uniqueness of the structural brain network for each subject after first applying our proposed topological filtering scheme. Based on a threshold where the network level ICC should be >0.90 our findings revealed that six out of nine NWS lead to unreliable results at the network level while all nine NWS were unreliable at the node level. In comparison our proposed ISWBN performed as well as the best performing individual NWS at the network level and the ICC was higher compared to all individual NWS at the node level. Importantly both network and node-wise ICCs of network metrics derived from the topologically filtered ISBWN ISWBNTF were further improved compared to the non-filtered ISWBN. Finally in the recognition accuracy tests we assigned each single ISWBNTF to the correct subject. We also applied our methodology to a second dataset of diffusion-weighted MRI in healthy controls and individuals with psychotic experience. Following a binary classification scheme the classification performance based on ISWBNTF outperformed the nine different weighting strategies and the ISWBN. Overall these findings suggest that the proposed methodology results in improved characterization of genuine between-subject differences in connectivity leading to the possibility of network-based structural phenotyping. Improving the Reliability of Network Metrics in Structural Brain Networks by Integrating Different Network Weighting Strategies into a Single Graph.