Mapping individual brain networks has drawn significant research interest in recent years. Most individual brain networks developed to date have been based on fMRI or diffusion MRI. Given recent concerns regarding confounding artifacts various preprocessing steps are generally included in functional or structural brain networks. Notably voxel-based morphometry VBM derived from anatomical MRI exhibits high signal-to-noise ratios and has been applied to individual interregional morphological networks. To the best of our knowledge individual voxel-wise morphological networks remain unexplored. The goal of this research is twofold: to build novel metrics for individual voxel-wise morphological networks and to test the reliability of the proposed morphological connectivity. To this end anatomical scans of a cohort of healthy subjects were obtained from a public database. The anatomical datasets were preprocessed and normalized to the standard brain space. For each individual wavelet-transform was applied on the VBM measures to obtain voxel-wise hierarchical features. The voxel-wise morphological connectivity was computed based on the wavelet features. Reliable brain hubs were detected by the z-scores of degree centrality. High reliability was discovered by test-retest analysis. No effects of wavelet scale network threshold or network type were found on hubs of group-level degree centrality. However significant effects of wavelet scale network threshold and network type were found on individual-level degree centrality. Significant effects of network threshold and network type were found on reliability of degree centrality. The results suggested that the voxel-wise morphological connectivity was reliable and exhibited a hub structure. Moreover the voxel-wise morphological connectivity could reflect individual differences. In summary individual voxel-wise wavelet-based features can probe morphological connectivity and may be beneficial for investigating the brain morphological connectomes. Mapping individual voxel-wise morphological connectivity using wavelet transform of voxel-based morphology.