Various previous studies have reported that brains of people diagnosed with gender dysphoria GD show sex-atypical features. In addition recent functional magnetic resonance imaging studies found that several brain resting-state networks RSNs in adults with GD show functional connectivity FC patterns that are not sex-atypical but specific for GD. In the current study we examined whether FC patterns are also altered in prepubertal children and adolescents with GD in comparison with non-gender dysphoric peers. We investigated FC patterns within RSNs that were previously examined in adults: visual networks VNs sensorimotor networks SMNs default mode network DMN and salience network. Thirty-one children 18 birth assigned males; 13 birth assigned females and 40 adolescents with GD 19 birth assigned males or transgirls; 21 birth assigned females or transboys and 39 cisgender children 21 boys; 18 girls and 41 cisgender adolescents 20 boys; 21 girls participated. We used independent component analysis to obtain the network maps of interest and compared these across groups. Within one of the three VNs VN-I adolescent transgirls showed stronger FC in the right cerebellum compared with all other adolescent groups. Sex differences in FC between the cisgender adolescent groups were observed in the right supplementary motor area within one of the two SMNs SMN-II; girls>boys and the right posterior cingulate gyrus within the posterior DMN boys>girls. Within these networks adolescent transgirls showed FC patterns similar to their experienced gender female. Also adolescent transboys showed a FC pattern similar to their experienced gender male but within the SMN-II only. The prepubertal children did not show any group differences in FC suggesting that these emerge with aging and during puberty. Our findings provide evidence for the existence of both GD-specific and sex-atypical FC patterns in adolescents with GD. Brain functional connectivity patterns in children and adolescents with gender dysphoria: Sex-atypical or not?