Background and Purpose- The availability of and expertise to interpret advanced neuroimaging recommended in the guideline-based endovascular stroke therapy EST evaluation are limited. Here we develop and validate an automated machine learning-based method that evaluates for large vessel occlusion LVO and ischemic core volume in patients using a widely available modality computed tomography angiogram CTA. Methods- From our prospectively maintained stroke registry and electronic medical record we identified patients with acute ischemic stroke and stroke mimics with contemporaneous CTA and computed tomography perfusion CTP with RAPID IschemaView post-processing as a part of the emergent stroke workup. A novel convolutional neural network named DeepSymNet was created and trained to identify LVO as well as infarct core from CTA source images against CTP-RAPID definitions. Model performance was measured using 10-fold cross validation and receiver-operative curve area under the curve AUC statistics. Results- Among the 297 included patients 224 75% had acute ischemic stroke of which 179 60% had LVO. Mean CTP-RAPID ischemic core volume was 2342 mL. LVO locations included internal carotid artery 13% M1 44% and M2 21%. The DeepSymNet algorithm autonomously learned to identify the intracerebral vasculature on CTA and detected LVO with AUC 0.88. The method was also able to determine infarct core as defined by CTP-RAPID from the CTA source images with AUC 0.88 and 0.90 ischemic core 30 mL and 50 mL. These findings were maintained in patients presenting in early 0-6 hours and late 6-24 hours time windows AUCs 0.90 and 0.91 ischemic core 50 mL. DeepSymNet probabilities from CTA images corresponded with CTP-RAPID ischemic core volumes as a continuous variable with r=0.7 Pearson correlation P<0.001. Conclusions- These results demonstrate that the information needed to perform the neuroimaging evaluation for endovascular therapy with comparable accuracy to advanced imaging modalities may be present in CTA and the ability of machine learning to automate the analysis. Machine Learning-Enabled Automated Determination of Acute Ischemic Core From Computed Tomography Angiography.