"Older adult apolipoprotein-E epsilon 4 APOE-4 allele carriers vary considerably in the expression of clinical symptoms of Alzheimers disease AD suggesting that lifestyle or other factors may offer protection from AD-related neurodegeneration. We recently reported that physically active APOE-4 allele carriers exhibit a stable cognitive trajectory and protection from hippocampal atrophy over 18months compared to sedentary 4 allele carriers. The aim of this study was to examine the interactions between genetic risk for AD and physical activity PA on white matter WM tract integrity using diffusion tensor imaging DTI MRI in this cohort of healthy older adults ages of 65 to 89. Four groups were compared based on the presence or absence of an APOE-4 allele High Risk; Low Risk and self-reported frequency and intensity of leisure time physical activity PA High PA; Low PA. As predicted greater levels of PA were associated with greater fractional anisotropy FA and lower radial diffusivity in healthy older adults who did not possess the APOE-4 allele. However the effects of PA were reversed in older adults who were at increased genetic risk for AD resulting in significant interactions between PA and genetic risk in several WM tracts. In the High Risk-Low PA participants who had exhibited episodic memory decline over the previous 18-months radial diffusivity was lower and fractional anisotropy was higher compared to the High Risk-High PA participants. In WM tracts that subserve learning and memory processes radial diffusivity DR was negatively correlated with episodic memory performance in physically inactive APOE-4 carriers whereas DR was positively correlated with episodic memory performance in physically active APOE-4 carriers and the two Low Risk groups. The common model of demyelination-induced increase in radial diffusivity cannot directly explain these results. Rather we hypothesize that PA may protect APOE-4 allele carriers from selective neurodegeneration of individual fiber populations at locations of crossing fibers within projection and association WM fiber tracts." Interactive effects of physical activity and APOE-4 on white matter tract diffusivity in healthy elders.