The increasing availability of high temporal resolution neuroimaging data has increased the efforts to understand the dynamics of neural functions. Until recently there are few studies on generative models supporting classification and prediction of neural systems compared to the description of the architecture. However the requirement of collapsing data spatially and temporally in the state-of-the art methods to analyze functional magnetic resonance imaging fMRI electroencephalogram EEG and magnetoencephalography MEG data cause loss of important information. In this study we addressed this issue using a topological data analysis TDA method called Mapper which visualizes evolving patterns of brain activity as a mathematical graph. Accordingly we analyzed preprocessed MEG data of 83 subjects from Human Connectome Project HCP collected during working memory n-back task. We examined variation in the dynamics of the brain states with the Mapper graphs and to determine how this variation relates to measures such as response time and performance. The application of the Mapper method to MEG data detected a novel neuroimaging marker that explained the performance of the participants along with the ground truth of response time. In addition TDA enabled us to distinguish two task-positive brain activations during 0-back and 2-back tasks which is hard to detect with the other pipelines that require collapsing the data in the spatial and temporal domain. Further the Mapper graphs of the individuals also revealed one large group in the middle of the stimulus detecting the high engagement in the brain with fine temporal resolution which could contribute to increase spatiotemporal resolution by merging different imaging modalities. Hence our work provides another evidence to the effectiveness of the TDA methods for extracting subtle dynamic properties of high temporal resolution MEG data without the temporal and spatial collapse. Uncovering Dynamic Brain Reconfiguration in MEG Working Memory n-Back Task Using Topological Data Analysis.