Deep brain stimulation DBS is an established and effective treatment for several movement disorders and is being developed to treat a host of neuropsychiatric disorders including epilepsy chronic pain obsessive compulsive disorder and depression. However the neural mechanisms through which DBS produces therapeutic benefits and in some cases unwanted side effects in these disorders are only partially understood. Non-invasive neuroimaging techniques that can assess the neural effects of active stimulation are important for advancing our understanding of the neural basis of DBS therapy. Magnetoencephalography MEG is a safe passive imaging modality with relatively high spatiotemporal resolution which makes it a potentially powerful method for examining the cortical network effects of DBS. However the degree to which magnetic artifacts produced by stimulation and the associated hardware can be suppressed from MEG data and the comparability between signals measured during DBS-on and DBS-off conditions have not been fully quantified. The present study used machine learning methods in conjunction with a visual perception task which should be relatively unaffected by DBS to quantify how well neural data can be salvaged from artifact contamination introduced by DBS and how comparable DBS-on and DBS-off data are after artifact removal. Machine learning also allowed us to determine whether the spatiotemporal pattern of neural activity recorded during stimulation are comparable to those recorded when stimulation is off. The spatiotemporal patterns of visually evoked neural fields could be accurately classified in all 8 patients with DBS implants during both DBS-on and DBS-off conditions and performed comparably across those two conditions. Further the classification accuracy for classifiers trained on the spatiotemporal patterns evoked during DBS-on trials and applied to DBS-off trials and vice versa were similar to that of the classifiers trained and tested on either trial type demonstrating the comparability of these patterns across conditions. Together these results demonstrate the ability of MEG preprocessing techniques like temporal signal space separation to salvage neural data from recordings contaminated with DBS artifacts and validate MEG as a powerful tool to study the cortical consequences of DBS. Quantitatively validating the efficacy of artifact suppression techniques to study the cortical consequences of deep brain stimulation with magnetoencephalography.