"Objectives: The objective of this research was to identify and conceptualize barriers and strategies for effective implementation of information communication technology ICT training for older adults. Methods: A grounded theory approach was used to collect and analyze qualitative data from 61 participants in three stakeholder groups: older-adult ICT trainees care providers and ICT trainers. Results: Care providers expressed older adults reluctance lack of affinity fears and socio-contextual attributes as barriers to overcome with ICT training. ICT trainers highlighted motivation trainer-trainee relationship patience self-reliance and mutual value as strategic themes. ICT trainees elucidated occupational accomplishment challenges and a sense of competence as themes from their experience with training. Discussion: While digital literacy and skill building have traditionally been the key focus of ageing-centred ICT training a deeper approach to address internal personal and external socio-contextual barriers as conceptualized in the study finding is vital in yielding successful outcomes. Implications for rehabilitation Information communication technology ICT is a vital resource for older adults to age-in-place and for health professionals in delivery of tele-rehabilitation. Family members and care providers realize the scope of ICT for ageing-in-place but raise doubts on the inherent motivation and abilities of older adults to adopt ICT. On the other hand older adults who engage in one-on-one ICT training value their new-found sense of accomplishment and competence in using the Internet and social media. Graduate students who provided the training greatly appreciate their own learning experience and stress the need for mutual trust patience and simplicity in teaching ICT. A major precursor to imparting digital literacy and skills in older adults who lack ICT exposure is to help them overcome deep-seated attitudinal and socio-contextual barriers through a one-on-one approach." Multi-stakeholder perspectives on information communication technology training for older adults: implications for teaching and learning.