Due to the nonlinear and high-dimensional characteristics of motor imagery electroencephalography MI-EEG it can be challenging to get high online accuracy. As a nonlinear dimension reduction method landmark maximum variance unfolding L-MVU can completely retain the nonlinear features of MI-EEG. However L-MVU still requires considerable computation costs for out-of-sample data. An incremental version of L-MVU denoted as IL-MVU is proposed in this paper. The low-dimensional representation of the training data is generated by L-MVU. For each out-of-sample data its nearest neighbors will be found in the high-dimensional training samples and the corresponding reconstruction weight matrix be calculated to generate its low-dimensional representation as well. IL-MVU is further combined with the dual-tree complex wavelet transform DTCWT which develops a hybrid feature extraction method named as IL-MD. IL-MVU is applied to extract the nonlinear features of the specific subband signals which are reconstructed by DTCWT and have the obvious event-related synchronization/event-related desynchronization phenomenon. The average energy features of  and  waves are calculated simultaneously. The two types of features are fused and are evaluated by a linear discriminant analysis classifier. Based on the two public datasets with 12 subjects extensive experiments were conducted. The average recognition accuracies of 10-fold cross-validation are 92.50% on Dataset 3b and 88.13% on Dataset 2b and they gain at least 1.43% and 3.45% improvement respectively compared to existing methods. The experimental results show that IL-MD can extract more accurate features with relatively lower consumption cost and it also has better feature visualization and self-adaptive characteristics to subjects. The t-test results and Kappa values suggest the proposed feature extraction method reaches statistical significance and has high consistency in classification. An Incremental Version of L-MVU for the Feature Extraction of MI-EEG.