"Prism adaptation PA is a procedure used for studying visuomotor plasticity in healthy individuals as well as for alleviating spatial neglect in patients. The adaptation is achieved by performing goal-directed movements while wearing prismatic lenses that induce a lateral displacement of visual information. This results in an initial movement error that is compensated by a recalibration of sensory-motor coordinates; consequently a lateral bias in both motor and perceptual measurements occurs after prism removal i.e. after effects. Neuroimaging studies have shown that a brief exposure to a rightward-shifting prism changes the activations in the inferior parietal lobule IPL and modulates interhemispheric balance during attention tasks. However it is yet unknown how PA changes global interplay between cortical networks as evident from task-free resting state connectivity. Thus we compared resting state functional connectivity patterns before Pre and after Post participants performed a session of pointing movements with a rightward-shifting prism N\u202f=\u202f14 or with neutral lenses as a control condition; N\u202f=\u202f12. Global connectivity analysis revealed significant decreases in functional connectivity following PA in two nodes of the Default Mode Network DMN and in the left anterior insula. Further analyses of these regions showed specific connectivity decrease between either of the DMN nodes and areas within the attentional networks including the inferior frontal gyrus the anterior insula and the right superior temporal sulcus. On the other hand the anterior insula decreased its connectivity to a large set of areas all within the boundaries of the DMN. These results demonstrate that a brief exposure to PA enhances the decoupling between the DMN and the attention networks. The change in interplay between those pre-existing networks might be the basis of the rapid and wide-ranged behavioural changes induce by PA in healthy individuals." Prism adaptation enhances decoupling between the default mode network and the attentional networks.