"Prior findings indicate that individuals scoring high on vital exhaustion show a dysfunctional stress response DSR that is reduced cortisol reactivity and habituation to psychosocial stressors. The main aim of the present study was to examine whether a DSR may be a vulnerability factor in exhaustion disorder ED. We examined whether a DSR is present during the early stages of ED and still is present after recovery. Three groups were studied: 1. Former ED patients n=14; 2. persons who during the past 6 month had experienced stress at work and had a Shirom-Melamed Burnout Questionnaire SMBQ score over 3.75 considered to indicate a pre-stage of ED n=17; 3. persons who had not experienced stress at work during the past 6 months and had a SMBQ score below 2.75 n=20. The participants were exposed twice to a virtual version of the Trier Social Stress Test V-TSST during which salivary cortisol samples were collected. In addition high frequency heart rate variability HF-HRV heart rate HR t-wave amplitude TWA and -amylase were assessed to examine stress reactivity and habituation in the autonomic nervous system ANS. The initial analyses showed clear hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal HPA axis and sympathetic nervous system SNS activations in both V-TSST sessions together with habituation of cortisol and heart rate in the second session but without any significant group differences. However the former ED patients showed considerable variation in self-reported signs of exhaustion SMBQ. This led us to assign former ED patients with lower ratings into the low SMBQ group LOWS and those with higher ratings to the high SMBQ group HIGHS. When repeating the analyses a different picture emerged; the HIGHS showed a lower cortisol response to the V-TSST than did the LOWS. Both groups cortisol response habituated to the second V-TSST session. The ANS responses did not differ between the two groups. Thus persons in a pre-stage of ED and unrecovered former ED patients showed signs of DSR in contrast to healthy controls and recovered former ED patients. The results may be interpreted as indicating that DSR in the HPA axis is present early on in the stress process but subsides after successful recovery." Exhaustion-related changes in cardiovascular and cortisol reactivity to acute psychosocial stress.