The development of chromatin immunoprecipitation ChIP with massively parallel DNA sequencing ChIP-seq technologies has promoted generation of large-scale epigenomics data providing us unprecedented opportunities to explore the landscape of epigenomic profiles at scales across both histone marks and tissue types. In addition to many tools directly for data analysis advanced computational approaches such as deep learning have recently become promising to deeply mine the data structures and identify important regulators from complex functional genomics data. We implemented a neural network framework a Variational Auto-Encoder VAE model to explore the epigenomic data from the Roadmap Epigenomics Project and the Encyclopedia of DNA Elements ENCODE project. Our model is applied to 935 reference samples covering 28 tissues and 12 histone marks. We used the enhancer and promoter regions as the annotation features and ChIP-seq signal values in these regions as the feature values. Through a parameter sweep process we identified the suitable hyperparameter values and built a VAE model to represent the epigenomics data and to further explore the biological regulation. The resultant Roadmap-ENCODE VAE RE-VAE model contained data compression and feature representation. Using the compressed data in the latent space we found that the majority of histone marks were well clustered but not for tissues or cell types. Tissue or cell specificity was observed only in some histone marks e.g. H3K4me3 and H3K27ac and could be characterized when the number of tissue samples is large e.g. blood and brain. In blood the contributive regions and genes identified by RE-VAE model were confirmed by tissue-specificity enrichment analysis with an independent tissue expression panel. Finally we demonstrated that RE-VAE model could detect cancer cell lines with similar epigenomics profiles. In conclusion we introduced and implemented a VAE model to represent large-scale epigenomics data. The model could be used to explore classifications of histone modifications and tissue/cell specificity and to classify new data with unknown sources. Decoding regulatory structures and features from epigenomics profiles: A Roadmap-ENCODE Variational Auto-Encoder RE-VAE model.