"Plenty of evidence suggests that childhood separation anxiety CSA predisposes the subject to adult-onset panic disorder PD. As well panic is frequently comorbid with both anxiety and depression. The brain mechanisms whereby CSA predisposes to PD are but completely unknown in spite of the increasing evidence that panic attacks are mediated at midbrains dorsal periaqueductal gray matter DPAG. Accordingly here we examined whether the neonatal social isolation NSI a model of CSA facilitates panic-like behaviors produced by electrical stimulations of DPAG of rats as adults. Eventual changes in anxiety and depression were also assessed in the elevated plus-maze EPM and forced-swimming test FST respectively. Male pups were subjected to 3-h daily isolations from post-natal day 2 PN2 until weaning PN21 allotting half of litters in individual boxes inside a sound-attenuated chamber NSI n\u200a=\u200a26 whilst siblings sham-isolated rats SHAM n\u200a=\u200a27 and dam were moved to another box in a separate room. Non-handled controls CTRL n\u200a=\u200a18 remained undisturbed with dams until weaning. As adults rats were implanted with electrodes into the DPAG PN60 and subjected to sessions of intracranial stimulation PN65 EPM PN66 and FST PN67-PN68. Groups were compared by Fishers exact test stimulation sites likelihood ratio chi-square tests stimulus-response threshold curves and Bonferronis post hoc t-tests EPM and FST for P<0.05. Notably DPAG-evoked panic-like responses of immobility exophthalmus trotting galloping and jumping were markedly facilitated in NSI rats relative to both SHAM and CTRL groups. Conversely anxiety and depression scores either did not change or were even reduced in neonatally-handled groups relative to CTRL respectively. Data are the first behavioral evidence in animals that early-life separation stress produces the selective facilitation of panic-like behaviors in adulthood. Most importantly results implicate the DPAG not only in panic attacks but also in separation-anxious childrens predispositions to the late development of PD." Evidence that the periaqueductal gray matter mediates the facilitation of panic-like reactions in neonatally-isolated adult rats.