Previous single-site neurostimulation experiments have unsuccessfully attempted to shift decision-making away from habitual control a fast inflexible cognitive strategy towards goal-directed control a flexible though computationally expensive strategy. We employed a dual-target neurostimulation approach in 30 healthy participants using cortico-cortical paired associative stimulation ccPAS to target two key nodes: lateral prefrontal cortex LPFC and intraparietal sulcus IPS to test whether decision-making can be artificially shifted from habitual toward goal-directed control. Participants received three active stimulations delivered at least six days apart each involving 100 paired pulses over the IPS and LPFC varying the interstimulus interval: two interventional time-relevant ccPAS 10\xa0msec interval and one control non-time-relevant ccPAS 100\xa0msec interval. Following stimulation participants completed a sequential learning task measuring goal-directed/habitual control and a working memory task. IPSLPFC ccPAS stimulating IPS then LPFC with a 10\xa0msec interval shifted decision-making from habitual toward goal-directed control compared to control ccPAS. There was no effect of LPFCIPS ccPAS nor an effect of any PAS condition on working memory. Previous studies have shown ccPAS effects outside the motor domain targeting prefrontal regions on response inhibition attentional bias and alpha asymmetry. The present study measures the behavioural effects of parietal-prefrontal PAS focusing on a highly complex decision-making task and working memory. If confirmed in larger studies this would be the first instance of neurostimulation successfully shifting decision-making from habitual to goal-directed control putatively via inducing long-term potentiation between the IPS and LPFC. However we found no effect in the other direction LPFCIPS ccPAS and no effect on working memory overall. PAS is a relatively new neuromodulatory technique in the cognitive arsenal and this study could help guide future approaches in healthy and disordered decision-making. The effect of frontoparietal paired associative stimulation on decision-making and working memory.