The brain is a network of neurons and its biological output is behaviour. This is an exciting age with a growing acknowledgement that the comprehensive compilation of synaptic circuits densely reconstructed in the brains of model species is now both technologically feasible and a scientifically enabling possibility in neurobiology much as 30\u2005years ago genomics was in molecular biology and genetics. Implemented by huge advances in electron microscope technology especially focused ion beam-scanning electron microscope FIB-SEM milling see Glossary image capture and alignment and computer-aided reconstruction of neuron morphologies enormous progress has been made in the last decade in the detailed knowledge of the actual synaptic circuits formed by real neurons in various brain regions of the fly Drosophila It is useful to distinguish synaptic pathways that are major with 100 or more presynaptic contacts from those that are minor with fewer than about 10; most neurites are both presynaptic and postsynaptic and all synaptic sites have multiple postsynaptic dendrites. Work on Drosophila has spearheaded these advances because cell numbers are manageable and neuron classes are morphologically discrete and genetically identifiable many confirmed by reporters. Recent advances are destined within the next few years to reveal the complete connectome in an adult fly paralleling advances in the larval brain that offer the same prospect possibly within an even shorter time frame. The final amendment and validation of segmented bodies by human proof-readers remains the most time-consuming step however. The value of a complete connectome in Drosophila is that by targeting to specific neurons transgenes that either silence or activate morphologically identified circuits and then identifying the resulting behavioural outcome we can determine the causal mechanism for behaviour from its loss or gain. More importantly the connectome reveals hitherto unsuspected pathways leading us to seek novel behaviours for these. Circuit information will eventually be required to understand how differences between brains underlie differences in behaviour and especially to herald yet more advanced connectomic strategies for the vertebrate brain with an eventual prospect of understanding cognitive disorders having a connectomic basis. Connectomes also help us to identify common synaptic circuits in different species and thus to reveal an evolutionary progression in candidate pathways. Of what use is connectomics? A personal perspective on the Drosophila connectome.