"The recent appearance of low cost virtual reality VR technologies - like the Oculus Rift the HTC Vive and the Sony PlayStation VR - and Mixed Reality Interfaces MRITF - like the Hololens - is attracting the attention of users and researchers suggesting it may be the next largest stepping stone in technological innovation. However the history of VR technology is longer than it may seem: the concept of VR was formulated in the 1960s and the first commercial VR tools appeared in the late 1980s. For this reason during the last 20 years 100s of researchers explored the processes effects and applications of this technology producing 1000s of scientific papers. What is the outcome of this significant research work? This paper wants to provide an answer to this question by exploring using advanced scientometric techniques the existing research corpus in the field. We collected all the existent articles about VR in the Web of Science Core Collection scientific database and the resultant dataset contained 21667 records for VR and 9944 for augmented reality AR. The bibliographic record contained various fields such as author title abstract country and all the references needed for the citation analysis. The network and cluster analysis of the literature showed a composite panorama characterized by changes and evolutions over the time. Indeed whether until 5 years ago the main publication media on VR concerned both conference proceeding and journals more recently journals constitute the main medium of communication. Similarly if at first computer science was the leading research field nowadays clinical areas have increased as well as the number of countries involved in VR research. The present work discusses the evolution and changes over the time of the use of VR in the main areas of application with an emphasis on the future expected VRs capacities increases and challenges. We conclude considering the disruptive contribution that VR/AR/MRITF will be able to get in scientific fields as well in human communication and interaction as already happened with the advent of mobile phones by increasing the use and the development of scientific applications e.g. in clinical areas and by modifying the social communication and interaction among people." The Past Present and Future of Virtual and Augmented Reality Research: A Network and Cluster Analysis of the Literature.