"Pathological tau aggregates occur in Alzheimers disease AD and other neurodegenerative tauopathies. It is not clearly understood why tauopathies vary greatly in the neuroanatomical and histopathological patterns of tau aggregation which contribute to clinical heterogeneity in these disorders. Recent studies have shown that tau aggregates may form distinct structural conformations known as tau strains. Here we developed a novel model to test the hypothesis that cell-to-cell transmission of different tau strains occurs in nontransgenic non-Tg mice and to investigate whether there are strain-specific differences in the pattern of tau transmission. By injecting pathological tau extracted from postmortem brains of AD AD-tau progressive supranuclear palsy PSP-tau and corticobasal degeneration CBD-tau patients into different brain regions of female non-Tg mice we demonstrated the induction and propagation of endogenous mouse tau aggregates. Specifically we identified differences in tau strain potency between AD-tau CBD-tau and PSP-tau in non-Tg mice. Moreover differences in cell-type specificity of tau aggregate transmission were observed between tau strains such that only PSP-tau and CBD-tau strains induce astroglial and oligodendroglial tau inclusions recapitulating the diversity of neuropathology in human tauopathies. Furthermore we demonstrated that the neuronal connectome but not the tau strain determines which brain regions develop tau pathology. Finally CBD-tau- and PSP-tau-injected mice showed spatiotemporal transmission of glial tau pathology suggesting glial tau transmission contributes to the progression of tauopathies. Together our data suggest that different tau strains determine seeding potency and cell-type specificity of tau aggregation that underlie the diversity of human tauopathies.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT Tauopathies show great clinical and neuropathological heterogeneity despite the fact that tau aggregates in each disease. This heterogeneity could be due to tau aggregates forming distinct structural conformations or strains. We now report the development of a sporadic tauopathy model to study human tau strains by intracerebrally injecting nontransgenic mice with pathological tau enriched from human tauopathy brains. We show human tau strains seed different types and cellular distributions of tau neuropathology in our model that recapitulate the heterogeneity seen in these human diseases." Pathological Tau Strains from Human Brains Recapitulate the Diversity of Tauopathies in Nontransgenic Mouse Brain.