Network activity is strongly tied to animal movement; however hippocampal circuits selectively engaged during locomotion or immobility remain poorly characterized. Here we examined whether distinct locomotor states are encoded differentially in genetically defined classes of hippocampal interneurons. To characterize the relationship between interneuron activity and movement we used in vivo two-photon calcium imaging in CA1 of male and female mice as animals performed a virtual-reality VR track running task. We found that activity in most somatostatin-expressing and parvalbumin-expressing interneurons positively correlated with locomotion. Surprisingly nearly one in five somatostatin or one in seven parvalbumin interneurons were inhibited during locomotion and activated during periods of immobility. Anatomically the somata of somatostatin immobility-activated neurons were smaller than those of movement-activated neurons. Furthermore immobility-activated interneurons were distributed across cell layers with somatostatin-expressing cells predominantly in stratum oriens and parvalbumin-expressing cells mostly in stratum pyramidale. Importantly each cell\s correlation between activity and movement was stable both over time and across VR environments. Our findings suggest that hippocampal interneuronal microcircuits are preferentially active during either movement or immobility periods. These inhibitory networks may regulate information flow in "labeled lines" within the hippocampus to process information during distinct behavioral states.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT The hippocampus is required for learning and memory. Movement controls network activity in the hippocampus but it\s unclear how hippocampal neurons encode movement state. We investigated neural circuits active during locomotion and immobility and found interneurons were selectively active during movement or stopped periods but not both. Each cell\s response to locomotion was consistent across time and environments suggesting there are separate dedicated circuits for processing information during locomotion and immobility. Understanding how the hippocampus switches between different network configurations may lead to therapeutic approaches to hippocampal-dependent dysfunctions such as Alzheimer\s disease or cognitive decline. Dedicated Hippocampal Inhibitory Networks for Locomotion and Immobility.