In recent years obtaining RNA secondary structure information has played an important role in RNA and gene function research. Although some RNA secondary structures can be gained experimentally in most cases efficient and accurate computational methods are still needed to predict RNA secondary structure. Current RNA secondary structure prediction methods are mainly based on the minimum free energy algorithm which finds the optimal folding state of RNA in vivo using an iterative method to meet the minimum energy or other constraints. However due to the complexity of biotic environment a true RNA structure always keeps the balance of biological potential energy status rather than the optimal folding status that meets the minimum energy. For short sequence RNA its equilibrium energy status for the RNA folding organism is close to the minimum free energy status; therefore the minimum free energy algorithm for predicting RNA secondary structure has higher accuracy. Nevertheless in a longer sequence RNA constant folding causes its biopotential energy balance to deviate far from the minimum free energy status. This deviation is because of its complex structure and results in a serious decline in the prediction accuracy of its secondary structure. In this paper we propose a novel RNA secondary structure prediction algorithm using a convolutional neural network model combined with a dynamic programming method to improve the accuracy with large-scale RNA sequence and structure data. We analyze current experimental RNA sequences and structure data to construct a deep convolutional network model and then we extract implicit features of an effective classification from large-scale data to predict the pairing probability of each base in an RNA sequence. For the obtained probabilities of RNA sequence base pairing an enhanced dynamic programming method is applied to obtain the optimal RNA secondary structure. Results indicate that our proposed method is superior to the common RNA secondary structure prediction algorithms in predicting three benchmark RNA families. Based on the characteristics of deep learning algorithm it can be inferred that the method proposed in this paper has a 30% higher prediction success rate when compared with other algorithms which will be needed as the amount of real RNA structure data increases in the future. A New Method of RNA Secondary Structure Prediction Based on Convolutional Neural Network and Dynamic Programming.