The structure and quantitative composition of the cerebral cortex are interrelated with its computational capacity. Empirical data analyzed here indicate a certain hierarchy in local cortical composition. Specifically neural wire i.e. axons and dendrites take each about 1/3 of cortical space spines and glia/astrocytes occupy each about 1/32 and capillaries around 1/34. Moreover data analysis across species reveals that these fractions are roughly brain size independent which suggests that they could be in some sense optimal and thus important for brain function. Is there any principle that sets them in this invariant way? This study first builds a model of local circuit in which neural wire spines astrocytes and capillaries are mutually coupled elements and are treated within a single mathematical framework. Next various forms of wire minimization rule wire length surface area volume or conduction delays are analyzed of which only minimization of wire volume provides realistic results that are very close to the empirical cortical fractions. As an alternative a new principle called "spine economy maximization" is proposed and investigated which is associated with maximization of spine proportion in the cortex per spine size that yields equally good but more robust results. Additionally a combination of wire cost and spine economy notions is considered as a meta-principle and it is found that this proposition gives only marginally better results than either pure wire volume minimization or pure spine economy maximization but only if spine economy component dominates. However such a combined meta-principle yields much better results than the constraints related solely to minimization of wire length wire surface area and conduction delays. Interestingly the type of spine size distribution also plays a role and better agreement with the data is achieved for distributions with long tails. In sum these results suggest that for the efficiency of local circuits wire volume may be more primary variable than wire length or temporal delays and moreover the new spine economy principle may be important for brain evolutionary design in a broader context. Cortical Composition Hierarchy Driven by Spine Proportion Economical Maximization or Wire Volume Minimization.