Fourier ptychographic microscopy FPM is a newly developed microscopic technique for large field of view high-resolution and quantitative phase imaging by combining the techniques from ptychographic imaging aperture synthesizing and phase retrieval. In FPM an LED array is utilized to illuminate the specimen from different angles and the corresponding intensity images are synthesized to reconstruct a high-resolution complex field. As a flexible and low-cost approach to achieve high-resolution wide-field and quantitative phase imaging FPM is of enormous potential in biomedical applications such as hematology and pathology. Conventionally the FPM reconstruction problem is solved by using a phase retrieval method termed Alternate Projection. By iteratively updating the Fourier spectrum with low-resolution-intensity images the result converges to a high-resolution complex field. Here we propose a new FPM reconstruction framework with deep learning methods and design a multiscale deep residual neural network for FPM reconstruction. We employ the widely used open-source deep learning library PyTorch to train and test our model and carefully choose the hyperparameters of our model. To train and analyze our model we build a large-scale simulation dataset with an FPM imaging model and an actual dataset captured with an FPM system. The simulation dataset and actual dataset are separated as training datasets and test datasets respectively. Our model is trained with the simulation training dataset and fine tuned with the fine-tune dataset which contains actual training data. Both our model and the conventional method are tested on the simulation test dataset and the actual test dataset to evaluate the performances. We also show the reconstruction result of another neural network-based method for comparison. The experiments demonstrate that our model achieves better reconstruction results and consumes much less time than conventional methods. The results also point out that our model is more robust under system aberrations such as noise and blurring fewer intensity images compared with conventional methods. Fourier ptychographic microscopy reconstruction with multiscale deep residual network.