"Cytology is the first pathological examination performed in the diagnosis of lung cancer. In our previous study we introduced a deep convolutional neural network DCNN to automatically classify cytological images as images with benign or malignant features and achieved an accuracy of 81.0%. To further improve the DCNNs performance it is necessary to train the network using more images. However it is difficult to acquire cell images which contain a various cytological features with the use of many manual operations with a microscope. Therefore in this study we aim to improve the classification accuracy of a DCNN with the use of actual and synthesized cytological images with a generative adversarial network GAN. Based on the proposed method patch images were obtained from a microscopy image. Accordingly these generated many additional similar images using a GAN. In this study we introduce progressive growing of GANs PGGAN which enables the generation of high-resolution images. The use of these images allowed us to pretrain a DCNN. The DCNN was then fine-tuned using actual patch images. To confirm the effectiveness of the proposed method we first evaluated the quality of the images which were generated by PGGAN and by a conventional deep convolutional GAN. We then evaluated the classification performance of benign and malignant cells and confirmed that the generated images had characteristics similar to those of the actual images. Accordingly we determined that the overall classification accuracy of lung cells was 85.3% which was improved by approximately 4.3% compared to a previously conducted study without pretraining using GAN-generated images. Based on these results we confirmed that our proposed method will be effective for the classification of cytological images in cases at which only limited data are acquired." Deep learning approach to classification of lung cytological images: Two-step training using actual and synthesized images by progressive growing of generative adversarial networks.