The canonical transient receptor potential TRPC channels are a family of non-selective cation channels that are activated by increases in intracellular Ca2+ and Gq/phospholipase C-coupled receptors. We used quantitative real-time PCR in situ hybridization immunoblots and patch-clamp recording from several brain regions to examine the expression of the predominant TRPC channels in the rodent brain. Quantitative real-time PCR of the seven TRPC channels in the rodent brain revealed that TRPC4 and TRPC5 channels were the predominant TRPC subtypes in the adult rat brain. In situ hybridization histochemistry and immunoblotting further resolved a dense corticolimbic expression of the TRPC4 and TRPC5 channels. Total protein expression of HIP TRPC4 and 5 proteins increased throughout development and peaked late in adulthood 6-9 weeks. In adults TRPC4 expression was high throughout the frontal cortex lateral septum LS pyramidal cell layer of the hippocampus HIP dentate gyrus DG and ventral subiculum vSUB. TRPC5 was highly expressed in the frontal cortex pyramidal cell layer of the HIP DG and hypothalamus. Detailed examination of frontal cortical layer mRNA expression indicated TRPC4 mRNA is distributed throughout layers 2-6 of the prefrontal cortex PFC motor cortex MCx and somatosensory cortex SCx. TRPC5 mRNA expression was concentrated specifically in the deep layers 5/6 and superficial layers 2/3 of the PFC and anterior cingulate. Patch-clamp recording indicated a strong metabotropic glutamate-activated cation current-mediated depolarization that was dependent on intracellular Ca2+and inhibited by protein kinase C in brain regions associated with dense TRPC4 or 5 expression and absent in regions lacking TRPC4 and 5 expression. Overall the dense corticolimbic expression pattern suggests that these Gq/PLC coupled nonselective cation channels may be involved in learning memory and goal-directed behaviors. Corticolimbic expression of TRPC4 and TRPC5 channels in the rodent brain.