Manual annotation is considered to be the "gold standard" in medical imaging analysis. However medical imaging datasets that include expert manual segmentation are scarce as this step is time-consuming and therefore expensive. Moreover single-rater manual annotation is most often used in data-driven approaches making the network biased to only that single expert. In this work we propose a CNN for brain extraction in magnetic resonance MR imaging that is fully trained with what we refer to as "silver standard" masks. Therefore eliminating the cost associated with manual annotation. Silver standard masks are generated by forming the consensus from a set of eight public non-deep-learning-based brain extraction methods using the Simultaneous Truth and Performance Level Estimation STAPLE algorithm. Our method consists of 1 developing a dataset with "silver standard" masks as input and implementing 2 a tri-planar method using parallel 2D U-Net-based convolutional neural networks CNNs referred to as CONSNet. This term refers to our integrated approach i.e. training with silver standard masks and using a 2D U-Net-based architecture. We conducted our analysis using three public datasets: the Calgary-Campinas-359 CC-359 the LONI Probabilistic Brain Atlas LPBA40 and the Open Access Series of Imaging Studies OASIS. Five performance metrics were used in our experiments: Dice coefficient sensitivity specificity Hausdorff distance and symmetric surface-to-surface mean distance. Our results showed that we outperformed i.e. larger Dice coefficients the current state-of-the-art skull-stripping methods without using gold standard annotation for the CNNs training stage. CONSNet is the first deep learning approach that is fully trained using silver standard data and is thus more generalizable. Using these masks we eliminate the cost of manual annotation decreased inter-/intra-rater variability and avoided CNN segmentation overfitting towards one specific manual annotation guideline that can occur when gold standard masks are used. Moreover once trained our method takes few seconds to process a typical brain image volume using modern a high-end GPU. In contrast many of the other competitive methods have processing times in the order of minutes. Convolutional neural networks for skull-stripping in brain MR imaging using silver standard masks.