Simultaneous reconstruction of activity and attenuation using the maximum-likelihood reconstruction of activity and attenuation MLAA augmented by time-of-flight information is a promising method for PET attenuation correction. However it still suffers from several problems including crosstalk artifacts slow convergence speed and noisy attenuation maps -maps. In this work we developed deep convolutional neural networks CNNs to overcome these MLAA limitations and we verified their feasibility using a clinical brain PET dataset. Methods: We applied the proposed method to one of the most challenging PET cases for simultaneous image reconstruction 18F-fluorinated-N-3-fluoropropyl-2--carboxymethoxy-3--4-iodophenylnortropane 18F-FP-CIT PET scans with highly specific binding to striatum of the brain. Three different CNN architectures convolutional autoencoder CAE Unet and Hybrid of CAE were designed and trained to learn a CT-derived -map -CT from the MLAA-generated activity distribution and -map -MLAA. The PET/CT data of 40 patients with suspected Parkinson disease were used for 5-fold cross-validation. For the training of CNNs 800000 transverse PET and CT slices augmented from 32 patient datasets were used. The similarity to -CT of the CNN-generated -maps -CAE -Unet and -Hybrid and -MLAA was compared using Dice similarity coefficients. In addition we compared the activity concentration of specific striatum and nonspecific cerebellum and occipital cortex binding regions and the binding ratios in the striatum in the PET activity images reconstructed using those -maps. Results: The CNNs generated less noisy and more uniform -maps than the original -MLAA. Moreover the air cavities and bones were better resolved in the proposed CNN outputs. In addition the proposed deep learning approach was useful for mitigating the crosstalk problem in the MLAA reconstruction. The Hybrid network of CAE and Unet yielded the most similar -maps to -CT Dice similarity coefficient in the whole head = 0.79 in the bone and 0.72 in air cavities resulting in only about a 5% error in activity and binding ratio quantification. Conclusion: The proposed deep learning approach is promising for accurate attenuation correction of activity distribution in time-of-flight PET systems. Improving the Accuracy of Simultaneously Reconstructed Activity and Attenuation Maps Using Deep Learning.