Interhemispheric connectivity with resting state MEG has been elusive and demonstration of the default mode network DMN yet more challenging. Recent seed-based MEG analyses have shown interhemispheric connectivity using power envelope correlations. The purpose of this study is to compare graph theoretic maps of brain connectivity generated using MEG with and without signal leakage correction to evaluate for the presence of interhemispheric connectivity. Eight minutes of resting state eyes-open MEG data were obtained in 22 normal male subjects enrolled in an IRB-approved study ages 16-18. Data were processed using an in-house automated MEG processing pipeline and projected into standard MNI source space at 7mm resolution using a scalar beamformer. Mean beta-band amplitude was sampled at 2.5second epochs from the source space time series. Leakage correction was performed in the time domain of the source space beam formed signal prior to amplitude transformation. Graph theoretic voxel-wise source space correlation connectivity analysis was performed for leakage corrected and uncorrected data. Degree maps were thresholded across subjects for the top 20% of connected nodes to identify hubs. Additional degree maps for sensory visual motor and temporal regions were generated to identify interhemispheric connectivity using laterality indices. Hubs for the uncorrected MEG networks were predominantly symmetric and midline bearing some resemblance to fMRI networks. These included the cingulate cortex bilateral inferior frontal lobes bilateral hippocampal formations and bilateral cerebellar hemispheres. These uncorrected networks however demonstrated little to no interhemispheric connectivity using the ROI-based degree maps. Leakage corrected MEG data identified the DMN with hubs in the posterior cingulate and biparietal areas. These corrected networks demonstrated robust interhemispheric connectivity for the ROI-based degree maps. Graph theoretic analysis of MEG resting state data without signal leakage correction can demonstrate symmetric networks with some resemblance to fMRI networks. These networks however are an artifact of high local correlation from signal leakage and lack interhemispheric connectivity. Following signal leakage correction MEG hubs emerge in the DMN with strong interhemispheric connectivity. Graph theoretical analysis of resting-state MEG data: Identifying interhemispheric connectivity and the default mode.