Overreactivity and defensive behaviors in response to tactile stimuli are common symptoms in autism spectrum disorder ASD patients. Similarly somatosensory hypersensitivity has also been described in mice lacking ASD-associated genes such as Fmr1 fragile X mental retardation protein 1. Fmr1 knock-out mice also show reduced functional connectivity between sensory cortical areas which may represent an endogenous biomarker for their hypersensitivity. Here we measured whole-brain functional connectivity in Engrailed-2 knock-out En2 -/- adult mice which show a lower expression of Fmr1 and anatomical defects common to Fmr1 knock-outs. MRI-based resting-state functional connectivity in adult En2 -/- mice revealed significantly reduced synchronization in somatosensory-auditory/associative cortices and dorsal thalamus suggesting the presence of aberrant somatosensory processing in these mutants. Accordingly when tested in the whisker nuisance test En2 -/- but not WT mice of both sexes showed fear behavior in response to repeated whisker stimulation. En2 -/- mice undergoing this test exhibited decreased c-Fos-positive neurons a marker of neuronal activity in layer IV of the primary somatosensory cortex and increased immunoreactive cells in the basolateral amygdala compared with WT littermates. Conversely when tested in a sensory maze En2 -/- and WT mice spent a comparable time in whisker-guided exploration indicating that whisker-mediated behaviors are otherwise preserved in En2 mutants. Therefore fearful responses to somatosensory stimuli in En2 -/- mice are accompanied by reduced basal connectivity of sensory regions reduced activation of somatosensory cortex and increased activation of the basolateral amygdala suggesting that impaired somatosensory processing is a common feature in mice lacking ASD-related genes.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT Overreactivity to tactile stimuli is a common symptom in autism spectrum disorder ASD patients. Recent studies performed in mice bearing ASD-related mutations confirmed these findings. Here we evaluated the behavioral response to whisker stimulation in mice lacking the ASD-related gene Engrailed-2 En2 -/- mice. Compared with WT controls En2 -/- mice showed reduced functional connectivity in the somatosensory cortex which was paralleled by fear behavior reduced activation of somatosensory cortex and increased activation of the basolateral amygdala in response to repeated whisker stimulation. These results suggest that impaired somatosensory signal processing is a common feature in mice harboring ASD-related mutations. Aberrant Somatosensory Processing and Connectivity in Mice Lacking Engrailed-2.