Deficits in the interpretation of others\ intentions from gaze-direction or other social attention cues are well-recognized in ASD. Here we investigated whether an EEG brain computer interface BCI can be used to train social cognition skills in ASD patients. We performed a single-arm feasibility clinical trial and enrolled 15 participants mean age 22y 2m with high-functioning ASD mean full-scale IQ 103. Participants were submitted to a BCI training paradigm using a virtual reality interface over seven sessions spread over 4 months. The first four sessions occurred weekly and the remainder monthly. In each session the subject was asked to identify objects of interest based on the gaze direction of an avatar. Attentional responses were extracted from the EEG P300 component. A final follow-up assessment was performed 6-months after the last session. To analyze responses to joint attention cues participants were assessed pre and post intervention and in the follow-up using an ecologic "Joint-attention task." We used eye-tracking to identify the number of social attention items that a patient could accurately identify from an avatar\s action cues e.g. looking pointing at. As secondary outcome measures we used the Autism Treatment Evaluation Checklist ATEC and the Vineland Adaptive Behavior Scale VABS. Neuropsychological measures related to mood and depression were also assessed. In sum we observed a decrease in total ATEC and rated autism symptoms Sociability; Sensory/Cognitive Awareness; Health/Physical/Behavior; an evident improvement in Adapted Behavior Composite and in the DLS subarea from VABS; a decrease in Depression from POMS and in mood disturbance/depression BDI. BCI online performance and tolerance were stable along the intervention. Average P300 amplitude and alpha power were also preserved across sessions. We have demonstrated the feasibility of BCI in this kind of intervention in ASD. Participants engage successfully and consistently in the task. Although the primary outcome rate of automatic responses to joint attention cues did not show changes most secondary neuropsychological outcome measures showed improvement yielding promise for a future efficacy trial. clinical-trial ID: NCT02445625-clinicaltrials.gov. A Feasibility Clinical Trial to Improve Social Attention in Autistic Spectrum Disorder ASD Using a Brain Computer Interface.