The idea to create the Telemedicine Project of Kosova and the International Virtual e-Hospital Network of Kosova was presented at G8-Meeting in Berlin May 4-5 2000 by the senior author RL then Assistant Professor of Surgery at Virginia Commonwealth University in Richmond Virginia during the presentation the "The anatomy of war and destruction of Kosova: The alumni view on reconstruction of heath in Kosova". Following wide spread acceptance by many countries and institutions around the world of the idea of creating a virtual e-hospital in Kosova became a reality. To ensure the creation of a telemedicine center and realization of the project in Kosova the Telemedicine Association of Kosova was created in Prishtina September 30 2000. On February 2 2001 a Memorandum of Understanding MOU for the implementation of TPK was signed between all stakeholders in health in Kosova. After extensive preparation with the funding from the European Agency for Reconstruction the Telemedicine Center of Kosova TCK was inaugurated on December 10 2002 making way for the official beginning of the first phase of development of the TPK. This historical moment for Kosova and for the Balkan countries received extensive media coverage locally and abroad. Currently we are at the second year and phase of TPK realization. The Telemedicine Center of Kosova TCK is a state-of-the-art telemedicine center the best in the Balkan and southeastern Europe. As such TCK is providing basic foundations for development of educational medical programs within the Kosova\s medical system; as well it is establishing the standards of regional and international consultations and collaboration in the Balkan Peninsula. Furthermore it is providing a solid basis for creation of human capacity that will lead and implement telemedicine program in the nine regional telemedicine centers of Kosova for many years and decades to come. "Use of information technology to improve quality of healthcare: Kosovas telemedicine project and international virtual e-hospital as an example."