Biofabricated nanostructured and microstructured scaffolds have exhibited great potential for nerve tissue regeneration and functional restoration and prevascularization and biotransportation within 3D fascicle structures are critical. Unfortunately an ideal internal fascicle and microvascular model of human peripheral nerves is lacking. In this study we used microcomputed tomography microCT to acquire high-resolution images of the human sciatic nerve. We propose a novel deep-learning network technique called ResNetH3D-Unet to segment fascicles and microvascular structures. We reconstructed 3D intraneural fascicles and microvascular topography to quantify the fascicle volume ratio FVR microvascular volume ratio MVR microvascular to fascicle volume ratio MFVR fascicle surface area to volume ratio FSAVR and microvascular surface area to volume ratio MSAVR of human samples. The frequency distributions of the fascicle diameter microvascular diameter and fascicle-to-microvasculature distance were analyzed. The obtained microCT analysis and reconstruction provided high-resolution microstructures of human peripheral nerves. Our proposed ResNetH3D-Unet method for fascicle and microvasculature segmentation yielded a mean intersection over union IOU of 92.1% approximately 5% higher than the U-net IOU. The 3D reconstructed model showed that the internal microvasculature runs longitudinally within the internal epineurium and connects to the external vasculature at some points. Analysis of the 3D data indicated a 48.2\xa0\xa03% FVR 23.7\xa0\xa01.8% MVR 4.9\xa0\xa00.5% MFVR 7.26\xa0\xa02.58\xa0mm-1 FSAVR and 1.52\xa0\xa00.52\xa0mm-1 MSAVR. A fascicle diameter of 0.98\xa0mm microvascular diameter of 0.125\xa0mm and microvasculature-to-fascicle distance of 0.196\xa0mm were most frequent. This study provides fundamental data and structural references for designing bionic scaffolding constructs with 3D microvascular and fascicle distributions. Three-dimensional reconstruction of internal fascicles and microvascular structures of human peripheral nerves.