The use of machine learning ML has been increasing rapidly in the medical imaging field including computer-aided diagnosis CAD radiomics and medical image analysis. Recently an ML area called deep learning emerged in the computer vision field and became very popular in many fields. It started from an event in late 2012 when a deep-learning approach based on a convolutional neural network CNN won an overwhelming victory in the best-known worldwide computer vision competition ImageNet Classification. Since then researchers in virtually all fields including medical imaging have started actively participating in the explosively growing field of deep learning. In this paper the area of deep learning in medical imaging is overviewed including 1 what was changed in machine learning before and after the introduction of deep learning 2 what is the source of the power of deep learning 3 two major deep-learning models: a massive-training artificial neural network MTANN and a convolutional neural network CNN 4 similarities and differences between the two models and 5 their applications to medical imaging. This review shows that ML with feature input or feature-based ML was dominant before the introduction of deep learning and that the major and essential difference between ML before and after deep learning is the learning of image data directly without object segmentation or feature extraction; thus it is the source of the power of deep learning although the depth of the model is an important attribute. The class of ML with image input or image-based ML including deep learning has a long history but recently gained popularity due to the use of the new terminology deep learning. There are two major models in this class of ML in medical imaging MTANN and CNN which have similarities as well as several differences. In our experience MTANNs were substantially more efficient in their development had a higher performance and required a lesser number of training cases than did CNNs. "Deep learning" or ML with image input in medical imaging is an explosively growing promising field. It is expected that ML with image input will be the mainstream area in the field of medical imaging in the next few decades. Overview of deep learning in medical imaging.