"Background: Older adults living in long term care rehabilitation hospitals and seniors residences often experience reduced mobility sometimes resulting in confinement indoors and isolation which can introduce or aggravate symptoms of depression anxiety loneliness and apathy. As Virtual Reality VR technologies become increasingly accessible and affordable there is a unique opportunity to enable older adults to escape their restricted physical realities and be transported to both stimulating and calming places which may improve their general well-being. To date no robust evaluations of the use of immersive VR therapy experienced through a head-mounted-display HMD for older adults within these settings have been reported. VR-therapy may prove to be a safe inexpensive non-pharmacological means of managing depressive symptoms and providing engagement and enjoyment to this rapidly growing demographic. Objectives: Establish whether it is feasible to use immersive VR technology as therapy for older adults who have reduced sensory mobility and/or impaired cognition. This includes evaluation of tolerability comfort and ease of use of the HMD and of the potential for immersive VR to provide enjoyment/relaxation and reduce anxiety and depressive symptoms. Methods: Sixty-six older adults mean age 80.5 SD = 10.5 with varying cognitive abilities normal = 28 mild impairment = 17 moderate impairment = 12 severe impairment = 3 unknown cognitive score = 6 and/or physical impairments entered a multi-site non-randomized interventional study in Toronto Canada. Participants experienced 3 to 20 min of 360-video footage of nature scenes displayed on Samsung GearVR HMD. Data was collected through pre/post-intervention surveys standardized observations during intervention and post-intervention semi-structured interviews addressing the VR experience. Results: All participants completed the study with no negative side-effects reported e.g. No dizziness disorientation interference with hearing aids; the average time spent in VR was 8 min and 76% of participants viewed the entire experience at least once. Participants tolerated the HMD very well; most had positive feedback feeling more relaxed and adventurous; 76% wanted to try VR again. Better image quality and increased narrative video content were suggested to improve the experience. Conclusion: It is feasible and safe to expose older adults with various levels of cognitive and physical impairments to immersive VR within these settings. Further research should evaluate the potential benefits of VR in different settings e.g. home/community based and explore better customization/optimization of the VR content and equipment for the targeted populations." Older Adults With Cognitive and/or Physical Impairments Can Benefit From Immersive Virtual Reality Experiences: A Feasibility Study.