In highly non-linear datasets attributes or features do not allow readily finding visual patterns for identifying common underlying behaviors. Therefore it is not possible to achieve classification or regression using linear or mildly non-linear hyperspace partition functions. Hence supervised learning models based on the application of most existing algorithms are limited and their performance metrics are low. Linear transformations of variables such as principal components analysis cannot avoid the problem and even models based on artificial neural networks and deep learning are unable to improve the metrics. Sometimes even when features allow classification or regression in reported cases performance metrics of supervised learning algorithms remain unsatisfyingly low. This problem is recurrent in many areas of study as per example the clinical biotechnological and protein engineering areas where many of the attributes are correlated in an unknown and very non-linear fashion or are categorical and difficult to relate to a target response variable. In such areas being able to create predictive models would dramatically impact the quality of their outcomes generating an immediate added value for both the scientific and general public. In this manuscript we present RV-Clustering a library of unsupervised learning algorithms and a new methodology designed to find optimum partitions within highly non-linear datasets that allow deconvoluting variables and notoriously improving performance metrics in supervised learning classification or regression models. The partitions obtained are statistically cross-validated ensuring correct representativity and no over-fitting. We have successfully tested RV-Clustering in several highly non-linear datasets with different origins. The approach herein proposed has generated classification and regression models with high-performance metrics which further supports its ability to generate predictive models for highly non-linear datasets. Advantageously the method does not require significant human input which guarantees a higher usability in the biological biomedical and protein engineering community with no specific knowledge in the machine learning area. Development of Supervised Learning Predictive Models for Highly Non-linear Biological Biomedical and General Datasets.