Recent developments in neuroimaging research support the increased use of naturalistic stimulus material such as film avatars or androids. These stimuli allow for a better understanding of how the brain processes information in complex situations while maintaining experimental control. While avatars and androids are well suited to study human cognition they should not be equated to human stimuli. For example the uncanny valley hypothesis theorizes that artificial agents with high human-likeness may evoke feelings of eeriness in the human observer. Here we review if when and how the perception of human-like avatars and androids differs from the perception of humans and consider how this influences their utilization as stimulus material in social and affective neuroimaging studies. First we discuss how the appearance of virtual characters affects perception. When stimuli are morphed across categories from non-human to human the most ambiguous stimuli rather than the most human-like stimuli show prolonged classification times and increased eeriness. Human-like to human stimuli show a positive linear relationship with familiarity. Secondly we show that expressions of emotions in human-like avatars can be perceived similarly to human emotions with corresponding behavioral physiological and neuronal activations with exception of physical dissimilarities. Subsequently we consider if and when one perceives differences in action representation by artificial agents versus humans. Motor resonance and predictive coding models may account for empirical findings such as an interference effect on action for observed human-like natural moving characters. However the expansion of these models to explain more complex behavior such as empathy still needs to be investigated in more detail. Finally we broaden our outlook to social interaction where virtual reality stimuli can be utilized to imitate complex social situations. Is it the real deal? Perception of virtual characters versus humans: an affective cognitive neuroscience perspective.