Complicated molecular and cellular processes take place in a spatiotemporally heterogeneous and precisely regulated pattern in the human fetal brain yielding not only dramatic morphological and microstructural changes but also macroscale connectomic transitions. As the underlying substrate of the fetal brain structural network both dynamic neuronal migration pathways and rapid developing fetal white matter WM fibers could fundamentally reshape early fetal brain connectome. Quantifying structural connectome development can not only shed light on the brain reconfiguration in this critical yet rarely studied developmental period but also reveal alterations of the connectome under neuropathological conditions. However transition of the structural connectome from the mid-fetal stage to birth is not yet known. The contribution of different types of neural fibers to the structural network in the mid-fetal brain is not known either. In this study diffusion tensor magnetic resonance imaging DT-MRI or DTI of 10 fetal brain specimens at the age of 20 postmenstrual weeks PMW 12 in vivo brains at 35 PMW and 12 in vivo brains at term 40 PMW were acquired. The structural connectome of each brain was established with evenly parcellated cortical regions as network nodes and traced fiber pathways based on DTI tractography as network edges. Two groups of fibers were categorized based on the fiber terminal locations in the cerebral wall in the 20 PMW fetal brains. We found that fetal brain networks become stronger and more efficient during 20-40 PMW. Furthermore network strength and global efficiency increase more rapidly during 20-35 PMW than during 35-40 PMW. Visualization of the whole brain fiber distribution by the lengths suggested that the network reconfiguration in this developmental period could be associated with a significant increase of major long association WM fibers. In addition non-WM neural fibers could be a major contributor to the structural network configuration at 20 PMW and small-world network organization could exist as early as 20 PMW. These findings offer a preliminary record of the fetal brain structural connectome maturation from the middle fetal stage to birth and reveal the critical role of non-WM neural fibers in structural network configuration in the middle fetal stage. Human Fetal Brain Connectome: Structural Network Development from Middle Fetal Stage to Birth.