Modulatory neurons project widely throughout the brain dynamically altering network processing based on an animal\s physiological state. The connectivity of individual modulatory neurons can be complex as they often receive input from a variety of sources and are diverse in their physiology structure and gene expression profiles. To establish basic principles about the connectivity of individual modulatory neurons we examined a pair of identified neurons the "contralaterally projecting serotonin-immunoreactive deutocerebral neurons" CSDns within the olfactory system of Drosophila Specifically we determined the neuronal classes providing synaptic input to the CSDns within the antennal lobe AL an olfactory network targeted by the CSDns and the degree to which CSDn active zones are uniformly distributed across the AL. Using anatomical techniques we found that the CSDns received glomerulus-specific input from olfactory receptor neurons ORNs and projection neurons PNs and networkwide input from local interneurons LNs. Furthermore we quantified the number of CSDn active zones in each glomerulus and found that CSDn output is not uniform but rather heterogeneous across glomeruli and stereotyped from animal to animal. Finally we demonstrate that the CSDns synapse broadly onto LNs and PNs throughout the AL but do not synapse upon ORNs. Our results demonstrate that modulatory neurons do not necessarily provide purely top-down input but rather receive neuron class-specific input from the networks that they target and that even a two cell modulatory network has highly heterogeneous yet stereotyped pattern of connectivity.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT Modulatory neurons often project broadly throughout the brain to alter processing based on physiological state. However the connectivity of individual modulatory neurons to their target networks is not well understood as modulatory neuron populations are heterogeneous in their physiology morphology and gene expression. In this study we use a pair of identified serotonergic neurons within the Drosophila olfactory system as a model to establish a framework for modulatory neuron connectivity. We demonstrate that individual modulatory neurons can integrate neuron class-specific input from their target network which is often nonreciprocal. Additionally modulatory neuron output can be stereotyped yet nonuniform across network regions. Our results provide new insight into the synaptic relationships that underlie network function of modulatory neurons. Identified Serotonergic Modulatory Neurons Have Heterogeneous Synaptic Connectivity within the Olfactory System of Drosophila.