Purpose To gain more insight into the pathophysiological mechanisms of visual hallucinations VHs in patients with Parkinson disease PD by analyzing whole-brain resting-state functional connectivity in PD patients with VH hereafter referred to as PD + VH patients and without VH hereafter referred to as PD - VH patients and control participants. Materials and Methods For this retrospective study 15 PD + VH patients 40 PD - VH patients and 15 control participants from a prospective cohort study were included which was approved by the local ethics board and written informed consent was obtained from all participants. Functional connectivity was calculated between 47 regions of interests of which whole-brain and region-specific means were compared by using a general linear model with false discovery rate control for multiple comparisons. Results Whole-brain mean functional connectivity was significantly lower in PD patients compared with control participants with regional decreases involving paracentral and occipital regions in both PD + VH and PD - VH patients mean whole-brain functional connectivity in PD + VH vs PD - VH 0.12  0.01 standard deviation vs 0.14  0.03 respectively; control participants 0.15  0.04; P < .05 corrected. In PD + VH patients nine additional frontal temporal occipital and striatal regions showed decreased functional connectivity compared with control participants mean of these nine regions in PD + VH PD - VH and control participants: 0.12  0.02 0.14  0.03 and 0.16  0.04 respectively; P < .05 corrected. Resting-state functional connectivity was unrelated to motor performance r = 0.182; P = .184 and related to cognitive deficits such as attention and perception  -0.555 and -0.558 respectively; P < .05. Conclusion The findings show a PD-related effect on resting-state functional connectivity of posterior and paracentral brain regions whereas the presence of VH is associated with a more global loss of connectivity related to attention and perception. These findings suggest that the pathophysiological mechanisms of VH in PD may include a global loss of network efficiency which could drive disturbed attentional and visual processing.  RSNA 2017 Online supplemental material is available for this article. Loss of Functional Connectivity in Patients with Parkinson Disease and Visual Hallucinations.