In this paper for an intensity wavelength division multiplexing IWDM-based multipoint fiber Bragg grating FBG sensor network an effective strain sensing signal measurement method called a long short-term memory LSTM machine learning algorithm integrated with data de-noising techniques is proposed. These are considered extremely accurate for the prediction of very complex problems. Four ports of an optical coupler with distinct output power ratios of 70% 60% 40% and 30% have been used in the proposed distributed IWDM-based FBG sensor network to connect a number of FBG sensors for strain sensing. In an IWDM-based FBG sensor network distinct power ratios of coupler ports can contain distinct powers or intensities. However unstable output power in the sensor system due to random noise harsh environments aging of the equipment or other environmental factors can introduce fluctuations and noise to the spectra of the FBGs which makes it hard to distinguish the sensing signals of FBGs from the noise signals. As a result noise reduction and signal processing methods play a significant role in enhancing the capability of strain sensing. Thus to reduce the noise to improve the signal-to-noise ratio and to accurately measure the sensing signal of FBGs we proposed a long short-term memory LSTM deep learning algorithm integrated with discrete waveform transform DWT data smoother de-noising techniques. The DWT data de-noising methods are important techniques for analyzing and de-noising the sensor signals and it further improves the strain sensing signal measurement accuracy of the LSTM model. Thus after de-noising the sensor data these data are fed into the LSTM model to measure the sensing signal of each FBG. The experimental results prove that the integration of LSTM with the DWT data de-noising technique achieved better sensing signal measurement accuracy even in noisy data or environments. Therefore the proposed IWDM-based FBG sensor network can accurately sense the signal of strain even in bad or noisy environments; can increase the number of FBG sensors multiplexed in the sensor system; and can enhance the capacity of the sensor system. Using a Machine Learning Algorithm Integrated with Data De-Noising Techniques to Optimize the Multipoint Sensor Network.