"Many types of virtual reality VR systems allow users to use natural physical head movements to view a 3D environment. In some situations such as when using systems that lack a fully surrounding display or when opting for convenient low-effort interaction view control can be enabled through a combination of physical and virtual turns to view the environment but the reduced realism could potentially interfere with the ability to maintain spatial orientation. One solution to this problem is to amplify head rotations such that smaller physical turns are mapped to larger virtual turns allowing trainees to view the entire surrounding environment with small head movements. This solution is attractive because it allows semi-natural physical view control rather than requiring complete physical rotations or a fully-surrounding display. However the effects of amplified head rotations on spatial orientation and many practical tasks are not well understood. In this paper we present an experiment that evaluates the influence of amplified head rotation on 3D search spatial orientation and cybersickness. In the study we varied the amount of amplification and also varied the type of display used head-mounted display or surround-screen CAVE for the VR search task. By evaluating participants first with amplification and then without we were also able to study training transfer effects. The findings demonstrate the feasibility of using amplified head rotation to view 360 degrees of virtual space but noticeable problems were identified when using high amplification with a head-mounted display. In addition participants were able to more easily maintain a sense of spatial orientation when using the CAVE version of the application which suggests that visibility of the users body and awareness of the CAVEs physical environment may have contributed to the ability to use the amplification technique while keeping track of orientation." Amplified Head Rotation in Virtual Reality and the Effects on 3D Search Training Transfer and Spatial Orientation.