Functional connectivity FC has become a leading method for resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging rs-fMRI analysis. However the majority of the previous studies utilized pairwise temporal synchronization-based FC. Recently high-order FC HOFC methods were proposed with the idea of computing "correlation of correlations" to capture high-level more complex associations among the brain regions. There are two types of HOFC. The first type is topographical profile similarity-based HOFC tHOFC and its variant associated HOFC aHOFC for capturing different levels of HOFC. Instead of measuring the similarity of the original rs-fMRI signals with the traditional FC low-order FC or LOFC tHOFC measures the similarity of LOFC profiles i.e. a set of LOFC values between a region and all other regions between each pair of brain regions. The second type is dynamics-based HOFC dHOFC which defines the quadruple relationship among every four brain regions by first calculating two pairwise dynamic LOFC "time series" and then measuring their temporal synchronization i.e. temporal correlation of the LOFC fluctuations not the BOLD fluctuations. Applications have shown the superiority of HOFC in both disease biomarker detection and individualized diagnosis than LOFC. However no study has been carried out for the assessment of test-retest reliability of different HOFC metrics. In this paper we systematically evaluate the reliability of the two types of HOFC methods using test-retest rs-fMRI data from 25 12 females age 24.48  2.55 years young healthy adults with seven repeated scans with interval = 3-8 days. We found that all HOFC metrics have satisfactory reliability specifically 1 fair-to-good for tHOFC and aHOFC and 2 fair-to-moderate for dHOFC with relatively strong connectivity strength. We further give an in-depth analysis of the biological meanings of each HOFC metric and highlight their differences compared to the LOFC from the aspects of cross-level information exchanges within-/between-network connectivity and modulatory connectivity. In addition how the dynamic analysis parameter i.e. sliding window length affects dHOFC reliability is also investigated. Our study reveals unique functional associations characterized by the HOFC metrics. Guidance and recommendations for future applications and clinical research using HOFC are provided. This study has made a further step toward unveiling more complex human brain connectome. Test-Retest Reliability of "High-Order" Functional Connectivity in Young Healthy Adults.