One of the most appreciated capabilities of computational toxicology is to support the design of pharmaceuticals with reduced toxicological hazard. To this end we have strengthened our drug photosafety assessments by applying novel computer models for the anticipation of in vitro phototoxicity and human photosensitization. These models are typically used in pharmaceutical discovery projects as part of the compound toxicity assessments and compound optimization methods. To ensure good data quality and aiming at models with global applicability we separately compiled and curated highly chemically diverse data sets from 3T3 NRU phototoxicity reports 450 compounds and clinical photosensitization alerts 1419 compounds which are provided as supplements. The latter data gives rise to a comprehensive list of explanatory fragments for visual guidance termed phototoxophores by application of a Bayesian statistics approach. To extend beyond the domain of well sampled fragments we applied machine learning techniques based on explanatory descriptors such as pharmacophoric fingerprints or more important accurate electronic energy descriptors. Electronic descriptors were extracted from quantum chemical computations at the density functional theory DFT level. Accurate UV/vis spectral absorption descriptors and pharmacophoric fingerprints turned out to be necessary for predictive computer models which were both derived from Deep Neural Networks but also the simpler Random Decision Forests approach. Model accuracies of 83-85% could typically be reached for diverse test data sets and other company in-house data while model sensitivity the capability of correctly detecting toxicants was even better reaching 86%-90%. Importantly a computer model-triggered response-map allowed for graphical/chemical interpretability also in the case of previously unknown phototoxophores. The photosafety models described here are currently applied in a prospective manner for the hazard identification prioritization and optimization of newly designed molecules. Computational Investigation of Drug Phototoxicity: Photosafety Assessment Photo-Toxophore Identification and Machine Learning.