"In Parkinsons disease PD self-directed movement such as walking is often found to be impaired while goal directed movement such as catching a ball stays relatively unaltered. This dichotomy is most clearly observed when sensory cueing techniques are used to deliver patterns of sound and/or light which in turn act as an external guide that improves gait performance. In this study we developed visual cues that could be presented in an immersive interactive virtual reality VR environment. By controlling how the visual cues black footprints were presented we created different forms of spatial and temporal information. By presenting the black footprints at a pre-specified distance apart we could recreate different step lengths spatial cues and by controlling when the black footprints changed color to red we could convey information about the timing of the foot placement temporal cues. A group of healthy controls HC; N = 10 and a group of idiopathic PD patients PD N = 12 were asked to walk using visual cues that were tailored to their own gait performance two spatial conditions 115% N and 130% L of an individuals baseline step length and three different temporal conditions spatial only condition NT 100 and 125% baseline step cadence. Both groups were found to be able to match their gait performance step length and step cadence to the information presented in all the visual cue conditions apart from the 125% step cadence conditions. In all conditions the PD group showed reduced levels of gait variability p < 0.05 while the HC group did not decrease. For step velocity there was a significant increase in the temporal conditions the spatial conditions and of the interaction between the two for both groups of participants p < 0.05. The coefficient of variation of step length cadence and velocity were all significantly reduced for the PD group compared to the HC group. In conclusion our results show how virtual footsteps presented in an immersive interactive VR environment can significantly improve gait performance in participants with Parkinsons disease." "Virtual Footprints Can Improve Walking Performance in People With Parkinsons Disease."