"The development of fatigue elicits multiple adaptations from the neuromuscular system. Muscle synergies are common patterns of neuromuscular activation that have been proposed as the building blocks of human movement. We wanted to identify possible adaptations of muscle synergies to the development of fatigue in the upper limb. Recent studies have reported that synergy structure remains invariant during the development of fatigue but these studies did not examine isolated synergies. We propose a novel approach to characterise synergy adaptations to fatigue by taking advantage of the spatial tuning of synergies. This approach allows improved identification of changes to individual synergies that might otherwise be confounded by changing contributions of overlapping synergies. To analyse upper limb synergies we applied non-negative matrix factorization to 14 EMG signals from muscles of 11 participants performing isometric contractions. A preliminary multidirectional task was used to identify synergy directional tuning. A subsequent fatiguing task was designed to fatigue the participants in their synergies preferred directions. Both tasks provided virtual reality feedback of the applied force direction and magnitude and were performed at 40% of each participants maximal voluntary force. Five epochs were analysed throughout the fatiguing task to identify progressive changes of EMG amplitude median frequency synergy structure and activation coefficients. Three to four synergies were sufficient to account for the variability contained in the original data. Synergy structure was conserved with fatigue but interestingly synergy activation coefficients decreased on average by 24.5% with fatigue development. EMG amplitude did not change systematically with fatigue whereas EMG median frequency consistently decreased across all muscles. These results support the notion of a neuromuscular modular organisation as the building blocks of human movement with adaptations to synergy recruitment occurring with fatigue. When synergy tuning properties are considered the reduction of activation of muscle synergies may be a reliable marker to identify fatigue." Fatigue Influences the Recruitment but Not Structure of Muscle Synergies.