"Impulsive-compulsive behaviours like pathological gambling or hypersexuality are a frequent side effect of dopamine replacement therapy in patients with Parkinsons disease. Multiple imaging studies suggest a significant reduction of presynaptic dopamine transporters in the nucleus accumbens to be a predisposing factor reflecting either a reduction of mesolimbic projections or alternatively a lower presynaptic dopamine transporter expression per se. Here we aimed to test the hypothesis of fewer mesolimbic projections as a risk factor by using dopamine synthesis capacity as a proxy of dopaminergic terminal density. Furthermore previous studies have demonstrated a reduction of fronto-striatal connectivity to be associated with increased risk of impulsive-compulsive behaviour in Parkinsons disease. Therefore another aim of this study was to investigate the relationship between severity of impulsive-compulsive behaviour dopamine synthesis capacity and fronto-striatal connectivity. Eighty participants underwent resting state functional MRI and anatomical T1-weighted images mean age: 68  9.9 years 67% male patients. In 59 participants 18F-DOPA-PET was obtained and voxel-wise Patlak slopes indicating dopamine synthesis capacity were calculated. All participants completed the QUIP-RS questionnaire a well validated test to quantify severity of impulsive-compulsive behaviour in Parkinsons disease. A voxel-wise correlation analysis between dopamine synthesis capacity and QUIP-RS score was calculated for striatal regions. To investigate the relationship between symptom severity and functional connectivity voxel-wise correlations were performed. A negative correlation was found between dopamine synthesis capacity and QUIP-RS score in the nucleus accumbens r = -0.57 P = 0.001 a region functionally connected to the rostral anterior cingulate cortex. The connectivity strength was modulated by QUIP-RS i.e. patients with more severe impulsive-compulsive behaviours had a weaker functional connectivity between rostral anterior cingulate cortex and the nucleus accumbens. In addition cortical thickness and severity of impulsive-compulsive behaviour were positively correlated in the subgenual rostral anterior cingulate cortex. We found three factors to be associated with severity of impulsive-compulsive behaviour: i decreased dopamine synthesis capacity in the nucleus accumbens; ii decreased functional connectivity of the rostral anterior cingulate cortex with the nucleus accumbens; and iii increased cortical thickness of the subgenual rostral anterior cingulate cortex. Rather than a downregulation of dopamine transporters a reduction of mesolimbic dopaminergic projections in conjunction with a dysfunctional rostral anterior cingulate cortex-a region known to play a key role in impulse control-could be the most crucial neurobiological risk factor for the development of impulsive-compulsive behaviours in patients with Parkinsons disease under dopamine replacement therapy." Dopamine metabolism of the nucleus accumbens and fronto-striatal connectivity modulate impulse control.