"Concussion also referred to as mild traumatic brain injury mTBI is the most common type of traumatic brain injury. Currently concussion is an area ofintensescientific interest to better understand the biological mechanisms and for biomarker development. We evaluated whole genome-wide blood DNA cytosine CpG methylation in 17 pediatric concussion isolated cases and 18 unaffected controls using Illumina Infinium MethylationEPIC assay. Pathway analysis was performed using Ingenuity Pathway Analysis to help elucidate the epigenetic and molecular mechanisms of the disorder. Area under the receiver operating characteristics AUC curves and FDR p-values were calculated for mTBI detection based on CpG methylation levels. Multiple Artificial Intelligence AI platforms including Deep Learning DL the newest form of AI were used to predict concussion based on i CpG methylation markers alone and ii combined epigenetic clinical and demographic predictors. We found 449 CpG sites 473 genes those were statistically significantly methylated in mTBI compared to controls. There were four CpGs with excellent individual accuracy AUC\u202f\u202f0.90-1.00 while 119 displayed good accuracy AUC\u202f\u202f0.80-0.89 for the prediction of mTBI. The CpG methylation changes 10% were observed in many CpG loci after concussion suggesting biological significance. Pathway analysis identified several biologically important neurological pathways that were perturbed including those associated with: impaired brain function cognition memory neurotransmission intellectual disability and behavioral change and associated disorders. The combination of epigenomic and clinical predictors were highly accurate for the detection of concusion using AI techniques. Using DL/AI a combination of epigenomic and clinical markers had sensitivity and specificity 95% for prediction of mTBI. In this novel study we identified significant methylation changes in multiple genes in response to mTBI. Gene pathways that were epigenetically dysregulated included several known to be involved in neurological function thus giving biological plausibility to our findings." Artificial Intelligence and the detection of pediatric concussion using epigenomic analysis.