Water fluoridation in Israel was initially introduced on a municipal level in 1981. Legislation in favor of national water fluoridation was approved in 1998. Over the last year an increasing campaign against the fluoridation project has become more and more evident. The material published by the opponents to fluoridation distributed in pamphlets daily journals and mass media resources illustrate as in the USA an endless and unrestrained "duel" between opponents and supporters of fluoridation. In Israel in contrast to the USA referenda are unprecedented therefore the political "battle field" is transferred to the municipal authorities and the Knesset. The pivotal component of the Israeli opponents to fluoridation regards the public\s health and safety. Unscientific publications appear regularly in the daily journals and electronic mass media with no reference of supporting studies ever mentioned. The inevitable question addressed in this article is what are the best ways of action to be taken by the supporters of fluoridation is Israel. The main and most important mode of action against this campaign is undoubtedly continuous persuasion. Nevertheless the continuous daily struggle of the supporters must be in a world-wide frame and be adjusted to the different target groups of the public. An effective confrontation should include nation-wide available publications internet daily papers and multimedia with special emphasis on the important subjects e.g. evidence based care significance of toxic doses and the value of social justice in a format comprehensible to the public and its leaders. The American experience helps us to understand that the opposition to water fluoridation will not diminished but on the contrary is expected to strengthen. We must look forward with no illusions and establish ways of action and cooperation by learning from past experience and from that of our collaborators. This will serve as the basis for the ongoing frank and persuasive efforts derived from a deep and honest belief in the justice of our way. The fight over water fluoridation in Israel.