"Focal brain lesions disrupt resting-state functional connectivity but the underlying structural mechanisms are unclear. Here we examined the direct and indirect effects of structural disconnections on resting-state functional connectivity in a large sample of sub-acute stroke patients with heterogeneous brain lesions. We estimated the impact of each patients lesion on the structural connectome by embedding the lesion in a diffusion MRI streamline tractography atlas constructed using data from healthy individuals. We defined direct disconnections as the loss of direct structural connections between two regions and indirect disconnections as increases in the shortest structural path length between two regions that lack direct structural connections. We then tested the hypothesis that functional connectivity disruptions would be more severe for disconnected regions than for regions with spared connections. On average nearly 20% of all region pairs were estimated to be either directly or indirectly disconnected by the lesions in our sample and extensive disconnections were associated primarily with damage to deep white matter locations. Importantly both directly and indirectly disconnected region pairs showed more severe functional connectivity disruptions than region pairs with spared direct and indirect connections respectively although functional connectivity disruptions tended to be most severe between region pairs that sustained direct structural disconnections. Together these results emphasize the widespread impacts of focal brain lesions on the structural connectome and show that these impacts are reflected by disruptions of the functional connectome. Further they indicate that in addition to direct structural disconnections lesion-induced increases in the structural shortest path lengths between indirectly structurally connected region pairs provide information about the remote functional disruptions caused by focal brain lesions." Damage to the shortest structural paths between brain regions is associated with disruptions of resting-state functional connectivity after stroke.