Specific phobia situational type-driving induced by accident accident phobia occurs in 18-38% of those involved in a vehicular accident of sufficient severity to warrant referral to the emergency departments of a general hospital. The objective is to investigate in an open study the effectiveness of the combined use of computer generated environments involving driving games game reality GR and a virtual reality VR driving environment in exposure therapy for the treatment of driving phobia following a motor vehicle accident MVA program. Fourteen subjects who met DSM-IV criteria for Simple Phobia/Accident Phobia and were referred from the emergency department of a general hospital were exposed to a Virtual Driving Environment Hanyang University Driving Phobia Environment and computer driving games London Racer/Midtown Madness/Rally Championship. Patients who experienced "immersion" i.e. a sense of presence with heightened anxiety in one of the driving simulations defined as an increase in SUD ratings of 3 and/or an increase of heart rate > 15 BPM in a 1-h trial session of computer simulation driving were exposed to a cognitive behavioral program of up to 12 1-h sessions involving graded driving simulation tasks with self-monitoring physiological feedback diaphragmatic breathing and cognitive reappraisal. Subjects were assessed at the beginning and end of therapy with measurements of: physiological responsivity heart rate subjective ratings of distress SUD rating scales for severity of fear of driving FDI Posttraumatic Stress Disorder CAPS and depression HAM-D and achievement of target behaviors. Of all patients 7/14 50% became immersed in the driving environments. This immersed group n = 7 completed the exposure program. Pre- and post-treatment comparisons showed significant post treatment reductions on all measures SUDS p = 0.008 FDI p = 0.008 CAPS p = 0.008 HR p = 0.008 CAPS p = 0.008 HAM-D p = 0.031. Further analysis of the FDI showed significant reductions in all three subscales: travel distress p = 0.008 travel avoidance p = 0.008 and maladaptive driving strategies p = 0.016. The findings of this study suggest that VR and GR may have a useful role in the treatment of driving phobia post-accident even when co-morbid conditions such as post-traumatic stress disorder and depression are present. Exploring the use of computer games and virtual reality in exposure therapy for fear of driving following a motor vehicle accident.