Constructing a robust emotion-aware analytical framework using non-invasively recorded electroencephalogram EEG signals has gained intensive attentions nowadays. However as deploying a laboratory-oriented proof-of-concept study toward real-world applications researchers are now facing an ecological challenge that the EEG patterns recorded in real life substantially change across days i.e. day-to-day variability arguably making the pre-defined predictive model vulnerable to the given EEG signals of a separate day. The present work addressed how to mitigate the inter-day EEG variability of emotional responses with an attempt to facilitate cross-day emotion classification which was less concerned in the literature. This study proposed a robust principal component analysis RPCA-based signal filtering strategy and validated its neurophysiological validity and machine-learning practicability on a binary emotion classification task happiness vs. sadness using a five-day EEG dataset of 12 subjects when participated in a music-listening task. The empirical results showed that the RPCA-decomposed sparse signals RPCA-S enabled filtering off the background EEG activity that contributed more to the inter-day variability and predominately captured the EEG oscillations of emotional responses that behaved relatively consistent along days. Through applying a realistic add-day-in classification validation scheme the RPCA-S progressively exploited more informative features from 12.67  5.99 to 20.83  7.18 and improved the cross-day binary emotion-classification accuracy from 58.31  12.33% to 64.03  8.40% as trained the EEG signals from one to four recording days and tested against one unseen subsequent day. The original EEG features prior to RPCA processing neither achieved the cross-day classification the accuracy was around chance level nor replicated the encouraging improvement due to the inter-day EEG variability. This result demonstrated the effectiveness of the proposed method and may shed some light on developing a realistic emotion-classification analytical framework alleviating day-to-day variability. Improving Cross-Day EEG-Based Emotion Classification Using Robust Principal Component Analysis.