"Emulating the input-output functions performed by a brain structure opens the possibility for developing neuroprosthetic systems that replace damaged neuronal circuits. Here we demonstrate the feasibility of this approach by replacing the cerebellar circuit responsible for the acquisition and extinction of motor memories. Specifically we show that a rat can undergo acquisition retention and extinction of the eye-blink reflex even though the biological circuit responsible for this task has been chemically inactivated via anesthesia. This is achieved by first developing a computational model of the cerebellar microcircuit involved in the acquisition of conditioned reflexes and training it with synthetic data generated based on physiological recordings. Secondly the cerebellar model is interfaced with the brain of an anesthetized rat connecting the models inputs and outputs to afferent and efferent cerebellar structures. As a result we show that the anesthetized rat equipped with our neuroprosthetic system can be classically conditioned to the acquisition of an eye-blink response. However non-stationarities in the recorded biological signals limit the performance of the cerebellar model. Thus we introduce an updated cerebellar model and validate it with physiological recordings showing that learning becomes stable and reliable. The resulting system represents an important step toward replacing lost functions of the central nervous system via neuroprosthetics obtained by integrating a synthetic circuit with the afferent and efferent pathways of a damaged brain region. These results also embody an early example of science-based medicine where on the one hand the neuroprosthetic system directly validates a theory of cerebellar learning that informed the design of the system and on the other one it takes a step toward the development of neuro-prostheses that could recover lost learning functions in animals and in the longer term humans." A Cerebellar Neuroprosthetic System: Computational Architecture and in vivo Test.