Perceiving one\s vertical is an integral part of efficiently functioning in an environment physically polarized along that dimension. How one determines the direction of gravity is not a task left only to inertial sensors such as the vestibular organs rather as numerous studies have shown this task is influenced visually and somatosensorily. In addition there is evidence that higher order cognitive effects such as expectancies and context are critical in perception of the vertical. One\s ability to integrate these various inputs during normal activity is not generally questioned one\s doubts being satisfied by observing a waiter navigating a crowded restaurant with a tray balanced on one hand neither tripping or dropping an entree. But how these various sources are integrated is still debated. Most research focuses on subjective vertical perception used visual matching/alignment tasks verbal reports or saccadic eye movements as a dependent measure. Although a motor task involving a joystick or indicator to be aligned with gravity without visual feedback is used much less frequently there is good evidence that individuals easily orient limbs to an external gravity-aligned coordinate axis while being statically tilted. By exposure to a dynamic situation the central nervous system should be no more challenged by the task of determining the subjective vertical than during static conditions because our spatial orientation systems were likely selected for just that. In addition the sensitive calibration between visual and other sensory input also must have been key to its selection. This sensory interaction can be tested by changing the relation between the various sources. With the advent of virtual reality technology a complex and "natural" visual stimulus is achievable and is easily manipulable. How one tests perception of verticality is also a pertinent question when researching spatial orientation systems. The system\s performance may be better indicated by a task of higher relevance to its normal function. In other words the dependent measure can be made more or less relevant to real-world tasks. With an experimental design that attempts to mimic natural conditions the current study focuses on two main topics. First how does manipulation of the visual inputs during passive roll-tilt affect one\s sense of body orientation? And second how does changing the task used to measure subjective vertical affect one\s performance? Haptic subjective vertical shows context dependence: task and vision play a role during dynamic tilt stimulation.