"Early debridement and/or eschar removal is regarded as a significant step in the treatment of deep partial and full thickness burns. It aims to control wound bioburden and allows early wound closure by conservative treatment or skin grafting. Preservation of viable dermis accompanied by early wound closure is regarded as a necessary step to reduce scar related complication e.g. functional limitations and/or unaesthetic scar formation. Aside from the classical techniques of surgical excision as tangential excision for eschar removal hydro-surgery maggot therapy laser enzymatic debridement have been described as additional techniques in the burn surgeons armamentarium. It is widely accepted that early eschar removal within 72h improves the outcome of burn wound treatment by reducing bacterial wound colonization infection and length of hospital stay. In contrast the right technique for eschar removal is still a matter of debate. There is increasing evidence that enzymatic debridement is a powerful tool to remove eschar in burn wounds reducing blood loss the need for autologous skin grafting and the number of wounds requiring surgical excision. In order to assess the role and clinical advantages of enzymatic debridement by a mixture of proteolytic enzymes enriched in Bromelain Nexobrid beyond the scope of the literature and in view of users experience a European Consensus Meeting was scheduled. The aim was to provide statements for application based on the mutual experience of applying enzymatic debridement in more than 500 adult and pediatric patients by the consensus panelists. Issues to be addressed were: indications pain management and anesthesia timing of application technique of application after-intervention care skin grafting after enzymatic debridement blood loss training strategies and learning curve and areas of future research needs. Sixty-eight 68 consensus statements were provided for the use of enzymatic debridement. The degree of consensus was remarkably high with a unanimous consensus in 88.2% of statements and lowest degree of consensus of 70% in only 3 statements. This consensus document may serve as preliminary guideline for the use of enzymatic debridement with user-oriented recommendations until further evidence and systematic guidelines are available." Eschar removal by bromelain based enzymatic debridement Nexobrid in burns: An European consensus.