"Extensive studies have shown that many animals capability of forming spatial representations for self-localization path planning and navigation relies on the functionalities of place and head-direction HD cells in the hippocampus. Although there are numerous hippocampal modeling approaches only a few span the wide functionalities ranging from processing raw sensory signals to planning and action generation. This paper presents a vision-based navigation system that involves generating place and HD cells through learning from visual images building topological maps based on learned cell representations and performing navigation using hierarchical reinforcement learning. First place and HD cells are trained from sequences of visual stimuli in an unsupervised learning fashion. A modified Slow Feature Analysis SFA algorithm is proposed to learn different cell types in an intentional way by restricting their learning to separate phases of the spatial exploration. Then to extract the encoded metric information from these unsupervised learning representations a self-organized learning algorithm is adopted to learn over the emerged cell activities and to generate topological maps that reveal the topology of the environment and information about a robots head direction respectively. This enables the robot to perform self-localization and orientation detection based on the generated maps. Finally goal-directed navigation is performed using reinforcement learning in continuous state spaces which are represented by the population activities of place cells. In particular considering that the topological map provides a natural hierarchical representation of the environment hierarchical reinforcement learning HRL is used to exploit this hierarchy to accelerate learning. The HRL works on different spatial scales where a high-level policy learns to select subgoals and a low-level policy learns over primitive actions to specialize on the selected subgoals. Experimental results demonstrate that our system is able to navigate a robot to the desired position effectively and the HRL shows a much better learning performance than the standard RL in solving our navigation tasks." Vision-Based Robot Navigation through Combining Unsupervised Learning and Hierarchical Reinforcement Learning.