Co-adaptive training paradigms for event-related desynchronization ERD based brain-computer interfaces BCI have proven effective for healthy users. As of yet it is not clear whether co-adaptive training paradigms can also benefit users with severe motor impairment. The primary goal of our paper was to evaluate a novel cue-guided co-adaptive BCI training paradigm with severely impaired volunteers. The co-adaptive BCI supports a non-control state which is an important step toward intuitive self-paced control. A secondary aim was to have the same participants operate a specifically designed self-paced BCI training paradigm based on the auto-calibrated classifier. The co-adaptive BCI analyzed the electroencephalogram from three bipolar derivations C3 Cz and C4 online while the 22 end users alternately performed right hand movement imagery MI left hand MI and relax with eyes open non-control state. After less than five minutes the BCI auto-calibrated and proceeded to provide visual feedback for the MI task that could be classified better against the non-control state. The BCI continued to regularly recalibrate. In every calibration step the system performed trial-based outlier rejection and trained a linear discriminant analysis classifier based on one auto-selected logarithmic band-power feature. In 24 minutes of training the co-adaptive BCI worked significantly p\u200a=\u200a0.01 better than chance for 18 of 22 end users. The self-paced BCI training paradigm worked significantly p\u200a=\u200a0.01 better than chance in 11 of 20 end users. The presented co-adaptive BCI complements existing approaches in that it supports a non-control state requires very little setup time requires no BCI expert and works online based on only two electrodes. The preliminary results from the self-paced BCI paradigm compare favorably to previous studies and the collected data will allow to further improve self-paced BCI systems for disabled users. A co-adaptive brain-computer interface for end users with severe motor impairment.