"Passive Brain-Computer interfaces pBCIs are a human-computer communication tool where the computer can detect from neurophysiological signals the current mental or emotional state of the user. The system can then adjust itself to guide the user toward a desired state. One challenge facing developers of pBCIs is that the systems parameters are generally set at the onset of the interaction and remain stable throughout not adapting to potential changes over time such as fatigue. The goal of this paper is to investigate the improvement of pBCIs with settings adjusted according to the information provided by a second neurophysiological signal. With the use of a second signal making the system a hybrid pBCI those parameters can be continuously adjusted with dynamic thresholding to respond to variations such as fatigue or learning. In this experiment we hypothesize that the adaptive system with dynamic thresholding will improve perceived game experience and objective game performance compared to two other conditions: an adaptive system with single primary signal biocybernetic loop and a control non-adaptive game. A within-subject experiment was conducted with 16 participants using three versions of the game Tetris. Each participant plays 15 min of Tetris under three experimental conditions. The control condition is the traditional game of Tetris with a progressive increase in speed. The second condition is a cognitive load only biocybernetic loop with the parameters presented in Ewing et al. 2016. The third condition is our proposed biocybernetic loop using dynamic threshold selection. Electroencephalography was used as the primary signal and automatic facial expression analysis as the secondary signal. Our results show that contrary to our expectations the adaptive systems did not improve the participants experience as participants had more negative affect from the BCI conditions than in the control condition. We endeavored to develop a system that improved upon the authentic version of the Tetris game however our proposed adaptive system neither improved players perceived experience nor their objective performance. Nevertheless this experience can inform developers of hybrid passive BCIs on a novel way to employ various neurophysiological features simultaneously." Dynamic Threshold Selection for a Biocybernetic Loop in an Adaptive Video Game Context.