"Auditory brainstem implants ABIs restore hearing to deaf individuals not eligible for cochlear implants. Speech comprehension in ABI users is generally poor compared to that of cochlear implant users and side effects are common. The poor performance may result from activating broad areas and multiple neuronal populations of the cochlear nucleus however detailed studies of the responses to surface stimulation of the cochlear nucleus are lacking. A conformable electrode array was microfabricated to fit on the rats dorsal cochlear nucleus DCN. It hosts 20 small electrodes each 100\u202fm diam.. The array was tested by recording evoked potentials and neural activity along the tonotopic axis of the inferior colliculus IC. Almost all bipolar electrode pairs elicited responses in some cases with an even or relatively constant pattern of thresholds and supra-threshold measures along the long axis of the array. This pattern suggests that conformable arrays can provide relatively constant excitation along the surface of the DCN and thus might decrease the ABI side effects caused by spread of high current to adjacent structures. We also examined tonotopic patterns of the IC responses. Compared to sound-evoked responses electrically-evoked response mappings had less tonotopic organization and were broader in width. They became more tonotopic when the evoked activity common to all electrodes and the late phase of response were subtracted out perhaps because the remaining activity is from tonotopically organized principal cells of the DCN. Responses became less tonotopic when inter-electrode distance was increased from 400\u202fm to 800\u202fm but were relatively unaffected by changing to monopolar stimulation. The results illustrate the challenges of using a surface array to present tonotopic cues and improve speech comprehension in humans who use the ABI." Auditory brainstem stimulation with a conformable microfabricated array elicits responses with tonotopically organized components.