Retinal fundus images are used to detect organ damage from vascular diseases e.g. diabetes mellitus and hypertension and screen ocular diseases. We aimed to assess convolutional neural network CNN models that predict age and sex from retinal fundus images in normal participants and in participants with underlying systemic vascular-altered status. In addition we also tried to investigate clues regarding differences between normal ageing and vascular pathologic changes using the CNN models. In this study we developed CNN age and sex prediction models using 219302 fundus images from normal participants without hypertension diabetes mellitus DM and any smoking history. The trained models were assessed in four test-sets with 24366 images from normal participants 40659 images from hypertension participants 14189 images from DM participants and 113510 images from smokers. The CNN model accurately predicted age in normal participants; the correlation between predicted age and chronologic age was R2\u2009=\u20090.92 and the mean absolute error MAE was 3.06 years. MAEs in test-sets with hypertension 3.46 years DM 3.55 years and smoking 2.65 years were similar to that of normal participants; however R2 values were relatively low hypertension R2\u2009=\u20090.74; DM R2\u2009=\u20090.75; smoking R2\u2009=\u20090.86. In subgroups with participants over 60 years the MAEs increased to above 4.0 years and the accuracies declined for all test-sets. Fundus-predicted sex demonstrated acceptable accuracy area under curve > 0.96 in all test-sets. Retinal fundus images from participants with underlying vascular-altered conditions hypertension DM or smoking indicated similar MAEs and low coefficients of determination R2 between the predicted age and chronologic age thus suggesting that the ageing process and pathologic vascular changes exhibit different features. Our models demonstrate the most improved performance yet and provided clues to the relationship and difference between ageing and pathologic changes from underlying systemic vascular conditions. In the process of fundus change systemic vascular diseases are thought to have a different effect from ageing. Research in context. Evidence before this study. The human retina and optic disc continuously change with ageing and they share physiologic or pathologic characteristics with brain and systemic vascular status. As retinal fundus images provide high-resolution in-vivo images of retinal vessels and parenchyma without any invasive procedure it has been used to screen ocular diseases and has attracted significant attention as a predictive biomarker for cerebral and systemic vascular diseases. Recently deep neural networks have revolutionised the field of medical image analysis including retinal fundus images and shown reliable results in predicting age sex and presence of cardiovascular diseases. Added value of this study. This is the first study demonstrating how a convolutional neural network CNN trained using retinal fundus images from normal participants measures the age of participants with underlying vascular conditions such as hypertension diabetes mellitus DM or history of smoking using a large database SBRIA which contains 412026 retinal fundus images from 155449 participants. Our results indicated that the model accurately predicted age in normal participants while correlations coefficient of determination R2 in test-sets with hypertension DM and smoking were relatively low. Additionally a subgroup analysis indicated that mean absolute errors MAEs increased and accuracies declined significantly in subgroups with participants over 60 years of age in both normal participants and participants with vascular-altered conditions. These results suggest that pathologic retinal vascular changes occurring in systemic vascular diseases are different form the changes in spontaneous ageing process and the ageing process observed in retinal fundus images may saturate at age about 60 years. Implications of all available evidence. Based on this study and previous reports the CNN could accurately and reliably predict age and sex using retinal fundus images. The fact that retinal changes caused by ageing and systemic vascular diseases occur differently motivates one to understand the retina deeper. Deep learning-based fundus image reading may be a more useful and beneficial tool for screening and diagnosing systemic and ocular diseases after further development. Effects of Hypertension Diabetes and Smoking on Age and Sex Prediction from Retinal Fundus Images.