External-beam radiotherapy followed by high dose rate HDR brachytherapy is the standard-of-care for treating gynecologic cancers. The enhanced soft-tissue contrast provided by magnetic resonance imaging MRI makes it a valuable imaging modality for diagnosing and treating these cancers. However in contrast to computed tomography CT imaging the appearance of the brachytherapy catheters through which radiation sources are inserted to reach the cancerous tissue later on is often variable across images. This paper reports for the first time a new deep-learning-based method for fully automatic segmentation of multiple closely spaced brachytherapy catheters in intraoperative MRI. Represented in the data are 50 gynecologic cancer patients treated by MRI-guided HDR brachytherapy. For each patient a single intraoperative MRI was used. 826 catheters in the images were manually segmented by an expert radiation physicist who is also a trained radiation oncologist. The number of catheters in a patient ranged between 10 and 35. A deep 3D convolutional neural network CNN model was developed and trained. In order to make the learning process more robust the network was trained 5 times each time using a different combination of shown patients. Finally each test case was processed by the five networks and the final segmentation was generated by voting on the obtained five candidate segmentations. 4-fold validation was executed and all the patients were segmented. An average distance error of 2.0\u2009\u2009\u2009\u20093.4\u2009mm was achieved. False positive and false negative catheters were 6.7% and 1.5% respectively. Average Dice score was equal to 0.60\u2009\u2009\u2009\u20090.17. The algorithm is available for use in the open source software platform 3D Slicer allowing for wide scale testing and research discussion. In conclusion to the best of our knowledge fully automatic segmentation of multiple closely spaced catheters from intraoperative MR images was achieved for the first time in gynecological brachytherapy. Fully automatic catheter segmentation in MRI with 3D convolutional neural networks: application to MRI-guided gynecologic brachytherapy.