Background: Event related potential ERP components such as P3 N2 and FRN are potential metrics for assessing feedback response as a form of performance monitoring. Most research studies investigate these ERP components using clinical or research-grade electroencephalography EEG systems. Wearable EEGs which are an affordable alternative have the potential to assess feedback response using ERPs but have not been sufficiently evaluated. Feedback-related ERPs also have not been scientifically evaluated in interactive settings that are similar to daily computer use. In this study a consumer-grade wearable EEG system was assessed for its feasibility to collect feedback-related ERPs through an interactive software module that provided an environment in which users were permitted to navigate freely within the program to make decisions. Methods: The recording hardware which costs < $1500 in total incorporated the OpenBCI Cyton Board with Daisy chain a consumer-grade EEG system that costs $949 USD. Seventeen participants interacted with an oddball paradigm and an interactive module designed to elicit feedback-related ERPs. The features of interests for the oddball paradigm were the P3 and N2 components. The features of interests for the interactive module were the P3 N2 and FRN components elicited in response to positive neutral and two types of negative feedback. The FRN was calculated by subtracting the positive feedback response from the negative feedback responses. Results: The P3 and N2 components of the oddball paradigm indicated statistically significant differences between infrequent targets and frequent targets which is in line with current literature. The P3 and N2 components elicited in the interactive module indicated statistically significant differences between positive neutral and negative feedback responses. There were no significant differences between the FRN types and significant interactions with channel group and FRN type. Conclusion: The OpenBCI Cyton after some modifications shows potential for eliciting and assessing P3 N2 and FRN components which are important indicators for performance monitoring in an interactive setting. Assessing Feedback Response With a Wearable Electroencephalography System.