"The recovery of microstructure-related features of the brains white matter is a current challenge in diffusion MRI. To robustly estimate these important features from multi-shell diffusion MRI data we propose to analytically regularize the coefficient estimation of the Mean Apparent Propagator MAP-MRI method using the norm of the Laplacian of the reconstructed signal. We first compare our approach which we call MAPL with competing state-of-the-art functional basis approaches. We show that it outperforms the original MAP-MRI implementation and the recently proposed modified Spherical Polar Fourier mSPF basis with respect to signal fitting and reconstruction of the Ensemble Average Propagator EAP and Orientation Distribution Function ODF in noisy sparsely sampled data of a physical phantom with reference gold standard data. Then to reduce the variance of parameter estimation using multi-compartment tissue models we propose to use MAPLs signal fitting and extrapolation as a preprocessing step. We study the effect of MAPL on the estimation of axon diameter using a simplified Axcaliber model and axonal dispersion using the Neurite Orientation Dispersion and Density Imaging NODDI model. We show the positive effect of using it as a preprocessing step in estimating and reducing the variances of these parameters in the Corpus Callosum of six different subjects of the MGH Human Connectome Project. Finally we correlate the estimated axon diameter dispersion and restricted volume fractions with Fractional Anisotropy FA and clearly show that changes in FA significantly correlate with changes in all estimated parameters. Overall we illustrate the potential of using a well-regularized functional basis together with multi-compartment approaches to recover important microstructure tissue parameters with much less variability thus contributing to the challenge of better understanding microstructure-related features of the brains white matter." MAPL: Tissue microstructure estimation using Laplacian-regularized MAP-MRI and its application to HCP data.