"In the last decades it has been a fast-growing concept in the neuroscience field. The passive brain-computer interface p-BCI systems allow to improve the human-machine interaction HMI in operational environments by using the covert brain activity eg mental workload of the operator. However p-BCI technology could suffer from some practical issues when used outside the laboratories. In particular one of the most important limitations is the necessity to recalibrate the p-BCI system each time before its use to avoid a significant reduction of its reliability in the detection of the considered mental states. The objective of the proposed study was to provide an example of p-BCIs used to evaluate the users mental workload in a real operational environment. For this purpose through the facilities provided by the cole Nationale de lAviation Civile of Toulouse France the cerebral activity of 12 professional air traffic control officers ATCOs has been recorded while performing high realistic air traffic management scenarios. By the analysis of the ATCOs brain activity electroencephalographic signal-EEG and the subjective workload perception instantaneous self-assessment provided by both the examined ATCOs and external air traffic control experts it has been possible to estimate and evaluate the variation of the mental workload under which the controllers were operating. The results showed i a high significant correlation between the neurophysiological and the subjective workload assessment and ii a high reliability over time up to a month of the proposed algorithm that was also able to maintain high discrimination accuracies by using a low number of EEG electrodes ~3 EEG channels. In conclusion the proposed methodology demonstrated the suitability of p-BCI systems in operational environments and the advantages of the neurophysiological measures with respect to the subjective ones." A passive brain-computer interface application for the mental workload assessment on professional air traffic controllers during realistic air traffic control tasks.