"The human brain is a complex network in which some brain regions denoted as hub regions play critically important roles. Some of these hubs are highly interconnected forming a rich-club organization which has been identified based on the degree metric from structural connectomes constructed using diffusion tensor imaging DTI-based fiber tractography. However given the limitations of DTI the yielded structural connectomes are largely compromised possibly affecting the characterization of rich-club organizations. Recent progress in diffusion MRI and fiber tractography now enable more reliable but also very dense structural connectomes to be achieved. However while the existing rich-club analysis method is based on weighted networks it is essentially built upon degree metric and therefore not suitable for identifying rich-club organizations from such dense networks as it yields nodes with indistinguishably high degrees. Therefore we propose a novel method i.e. Rich-club organization Identification using Combined H-degree and Effective strength to h-degree Ratio RICHER to identify rich-club organizations from dense weighted networks. Overall it is shown that more robust rich-club organizations can be achieved using our proposed framework i.e. state-of-the-art fiber tractography approaches and our proposed RICHER method in comparison to the previous method focusing on weighted networks based on degree i.e. RC-degree. Furthermore by simulating network attacks in 3 ways i.e. attack to non-rich-club/non-rich-club edges NRC2NRC rich-club/non-rich-club edges RC2NRC and rich-club/rich-club edges RC2RC brain network damage consequences have been evaluated in terms of global efficiency GE reductions. As expected significant GE reductions have been detected using our proposed framework among conditions i.e. NRC2NRC < RC2NRC NRC2NRC < RC2RC and RC2NRC < RC2RC which however have not been detected otherwise." Robust Identification of Rich-Club Organization in Weighted and Dense Structural Connectomes.