Convergent evidences have revealed that schizophrenia is associated with brain dysconnectivity which leads to abnormal network organization. However discrepancies were apparent between the structural connectivity SC and functional connectivity FC studies and the relationship between structural and functional deficits in schizophrenia remains largely unknown. In this study resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging and structural diffusion tensor imaging were performed in 20 patients with schizophrenia and 20 matched healthy volunteers patients/controls\u2009=\u200919/17 after head motion rejection. Functional and structural brain networks were obtained for each participant. Graph theoretical approaches were employed to parcellate the FC networks into functional modules. The relationships between the entries of SC and FC were estimated within each module to identify group differences and their correlations with clinical symptoms. Although five common functional modules including the default mode occipital subcortical frontoparietal and central modules were identified in both groups the patients showed a significantly reduced modularity in comparison with healthy participants. Furthermore we found that schizophrenia-related aberrations of SC-FC coupling exhibited complex patterns among modules. Compared with controls patients showed an increased SC-FC coupling in the default mode and the central modules. Moreover significant SC-FC decoupling was demonstrated in the occipital and the subcortical modules which was associated with longer duration of illness and more severe clinical manifestations of schizophrenia. Taken together these findings demonstrated that altered module-dependent SC-FC coupling may underlie abnormal brain function and clinical symptoms observed in schizophrenia and highlighted the potential for using new multimodal neuroimaging biomarkers for diagnosis and severity evaluation of schizophrenia. Hum Brain Mapp 38:2008-2025 2017. Modular-level alterations of structure-function coupling in schizophrenia connectome.