Motor imagery MI-based brain-computer interfaces BCIs have been widely used for rehabilitation of motor abilities and prosthesis control for patients with motor impairments. However MI-BCI performance exhibits a wide variability across subjects and the underlying neural mechanism remains unclear. Several studies have demonstrated that both the fronto-parietal attention network FPAN and MI are involved in high-level cognitive processes that are crucial for the control of BCIs. Therefore we hypothesized that the FPAN may play an important role in MI-BCI performance. In our study we recorded multi-modal datasets consisting of MI electroencephalography EEG signals T1-weighted structural and resting-state functional MRI data for each subject. MI-BCI performance was evaluated using the common spatial pattern to extract the MI features from EEG signals. One cortical structural feature cortical thickness CT and two measurements degree centrality DC and eigenvector centrality EC of node centrality were derived from the structural and functional MRI data respectively. Based on the information extracted from the EEG and MRI a correlation analysis was used to elucidate the relationships between the FPAN and MI-BCI performance. Our results show that the DC of the right ventral intraparietal sulcus the EC and CT of the left inferior parietal lobe and the CT of the right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex were significantly associated with MI-BCI performance. Moreover the receiver operating characteristic analysis and machine learning classification revealed that the EC and CT of the left IPL could effectively predict the low-aptitude BCI users from the high-aptitude BCI users with 83.3% accuracy. Those findings consistently reveal that the individuals who have efficient FPAN would perform better on MI-BCI. Our findings may deepen the understanding of individual variability in MI-BCI performance and also may provide a new biomarker to predict individual MI-BCI performance. Structural and functional correlates of motor imagery BCI performance: Insights from the patterns of fronto-parietal attention network.