"Purpose: To evaluate the feasibility of a patient-specific rehearsal PsR before emergency endovascular aneurysm repairs eEVAR and its influence on the operation. Materials and Methods: From February 2016 to October 2016 10 consecutive patients mean age 757.4 years; 9 men presenting with a ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm rAAA suitable for standard EVAR were enrolled in the study. A 3-dimensional 3D model of the abdominal aorta was generated on a virtual reality simulator based on the patients computed tomography CT images. Following the patient-specific simulation setup PsR was conducted during patient admission or in parallel with the preoperative eEVAR workup. Measured outcomes were PsR feasibility only in the first 4 patients and impact on operative performance thereafter changes in device selection the planning process clinical outcomes perioperative mortality and complication rates. Technical metrics and timing of system setup rehearsal interval from patient arrival to the actual procedure and eEVAR were recorded. Results: Mean time for 3D model creation was 21.37.8 minutes range 13-37; there was a significant positive relationship between aortic neck diameter and segmentation time p=0.003. The overall mean time for simulator setup and PsR was 5414 minutes range 37-80; PsR alone was completed in a mean 3140 minutes 95% confidence interval -60 to -2.2. The actual eEVAR procedure duration was 6916 minutes range 45-90. No delay in the actual eEVAR procedure was registered owing to the PsR pathway. In 6 patients preprocedure rehearsal induced changes in operative strategy including device selection main body introduction side and/or deployment configuration. In 4 cases rehearsal was performed twice to achieve optimal performance. Conclusion: PsR before eEVAR was feasible in all cases and caused no time delays in the actual eEVAR procedure. PsR optimized eEVAR planning by identifying optimal strategy for stent-graft component selection and deployment." Patient-Specific Rehearsal Feasibility Before Endovascular Repair of Ruptured Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm.