Background and Purpose- Evidence suggests that therapy can be effective in recovering from aphasia provided that it consists of socially embedded intensive training of behaviorally relevant tasks. However the resources of healthcare systems are often too limited to provide such treatment at sufficient dosage. Hence there is a need for evidence-based cost-effective rehabilitation methods. Here we asked whether virtual reality-based treatment grounded in the principles of use-dependent learning behavioral relevance and intensity positively impacts recovery from nonfluent aphasia. Methods- Seventeen patients with chronic nonfluent aphasia underwent intensive therapy in a randomized controlled parallel-group trial. Participants were assigned to the control group N=8 receiving standard treatment or to the experimental group N=9 receiving augmented embodied therapy with the Rehabilitation Gaming System for aphasia. All Rehabilitation Gaming System for aphasia sessions were supervised by an assistant who monitored the patients but did not offer any elements of standard therapy. Both interventions were matched for intensity and materials. Results- Our results revealed that at the end of the treatment both groups significantly improved on the primary outcome measure Boston Diagnostic Aphasia Examination: control group P=0.04; experimental group P=0.01 and the secondary outcome measure lexical access-vocabulary test: control group P=0.01; experimental group P=0.007. However only the Rehabilitation Gaming System for aphasia group improved on the Communicative Aphasia Log  P=0.01. The follow-up assessment week 16 demonstrated that while both groups retained vocabulary-related changes control group P=0.01; experimental group P=0.007 only the Rehabilitation Gaming System for aphasia group showed therapy-induced improvements in language  P=0.01 and communication  P=0.05. Conclusions- Our results demonstrate the effectiveness of Rehabilitation Gaming System for aphasia for improving language and communication in patients with chronic aphasia suggesting that current challenges faced by the healthcare system in the treatment of stroke might be effectively addressed by augmenting traditional therapy with computer-based methods. Clinical Trial Registration- URL: https://www.clinicaltrials.gov . Unique identifier: NCT02928822. Augmented Dyadic Therapy Boosts Recovery of Language Function in Patients With Nonfluent Aphasia.