Clinical morphological analysis of histopathology samples is an effective method in cancer diagnosis. Computational pathology methods can be employed to automate this analysis providing improved objectivity and scalability. More specifically computational techniques can be used in segmenting glands which is an essential factor in cancer diagnosis. Automatic delineation of glands is a challenging task considering a large variability in glandular morphology across tissues and pathological subtypes. A deep learning based gland segmentation method can be developed to address the above task but it requires a large number of accurate gland annotations from several tissue slides. Such a large dataset need to be generated manually by experienced pathologists which is laborious time-consuming expensive and suffers from the subjectivity of the annotator. So far deep learning techniques have produced promising results on a few organ-specific gland segmentation tasks however the demand for organ-specific gland annotations hinder the extensibility of these techniques to other organs. This work investigates the idea of cross-domain -organ type approximation that aims at reducing the need for organ-specific annotations. Unlike parenchyma the stromal component of tissues that lies between the glands is more consistent across several organs. It is hypothesized that an automatic method that can precisely segment the stroma would pave the way for a cross-organ gland segmentation. Two proposed Dense-U-Nets are trained on H&E strained colon adenocarcinoma samples focusing on the gland and stroma segmentation. The trained networks are evaluated on two independent datasets they are a H&E stained colon adenocarcinoma dataset and a H&E stained breast invasive cancer dataset. The trained network targeting the stroma segmentation performs similar to the network targeting the gland segmentation on the colon dataset. Whereas the former approach performs significantly better compared to the latter approach on the breast dataset showcasing the higher generalization capacity of the stroma segmentation approach. The networks are evaluated using Dice coefficient and Hausdorff distance computed between the ground truth gland masks and the predicted gland masks. The conducted experiments validate the efficacy of the proposed stoma segmentation approach toward multi-organ gland segmentation. Multi-Organ Gland Segmentation Using Deep Learning.