"Toxoplasma gondii one of the worlds most common parasites can infect all types of warm-blooded animals including one-third of the worlds human population. Most current routine diagnostic methods are costly time-consuming and labor-intensive. Although T. gondii can be directly observed under the microscope in tissue or spinal fluid samples this form of identification is difficult and requires well-trained professionals. Nevertheless the traditional identification of parasites under the microscope is still performed by a large number of laboratories. Novel efficient and reliable methods of T. gondii identification are therefore needed particularly in developing countries. To this end we developed a novel transfer learning-based microscopic image recognition method for T. gondii identification. This approach employs the fuzzy cycle generative adversarial network FCGAN with transfer learning utilizing knowledge gained by parasitologists that Toxoplasma is banana or crescent shaped. Our approach aims to build connections between microscopic and macroscopic associated objects by embedding the fuzzy C-means cluster algorithm into the cycle generative adversarial network Cycle GAN. Our approach achieves 93.1% and 94.0% detection accuracy for 400 and 1000 Toxoplasma microscopic images respectively. We showed the high accuracy and effectiveness of our approach in newly collected unlabeled Toxoplasma microscopic images compared to other currently available deep learning methods. This novel method for Toxoplasma microscopic image recognition will open a new window for developing cost-effective and scalable deep learning-based diagnostic solutions potentially enabling broader clinical access in developing countries.IMPORTANCE Toxoplasma gondii one of the worlds most common parasites can infect all types of warm-blooded animals including one-third of the worlds human population. Artificial intelligence AI could provide accurate and rapid diagnosis in fighting Toxoplasma So far none of the previously reported deep learning methods have attempted to explore the advantages of transfer learning for Toxoplasma detection. The knowledge from parasitologists is that the Toxoplasma parasite is generally banana or crescent shaped. Based on this we built connections between microscopic and macroscopic associated objects by embedding the fuzzy C-means cluster algorithm into the cycle generative adversarial network Cycle GAN. Our approach achieves high accuracy and effectiveness in 400 and 1000 Toxoplasma microscopic images." Transfer Learning for Toxoplasma gondii Recognition.