Virtual reality VR technology is being used with increasing frequency as a training medium for motor rehabilitation. However before addressing training effectiveness in virtual environments VEs it is necessary to identify if movements made in such environments are kinematically similar to those made in physical environments PEs and the effect of provision of haptic feedback on these movement patterns. These questions are important since reach-to-grasp movements may be inaccurate when visual or haptic feedback is altered or absent. Our goal was to compare kinematics of reaching and grasping movements to three objects performed in an immersive three-dimensional 3D VE with haptic feedback cyberglove/grasp system viewed through a head-mounted display to those made in an equivalent physical environment PE. We also compared movements in PE made with and without wearing the cyberglove/grasp haptic feedback system. Ten healthy subjects 8 women 62.18.8years reached and grasped objects requiring 3 different grasp types can diameter 65.6mm cylindrical grasp; screwdriver diameter 31.6mm power grasp; pen diameter 7.5mm precision grasp in PE and visually similar virtual objects in VE. Temporal and spatial arm and trunk kinematics were analyzed. Movements were slower and grip apertures were wider when wearing the glove in both the PE and the VE compared to movements made in the PE without the glove. When wearing the glove subjects used similar reaching trajectories in both environments preserved the coordination between reaching and grasping and scaled grip aperture to object size for the larger object cylindrical grasp. However in VE compared to PE movements were slower and had longer deceleration times elbow extension was greater when reaching to the smallest object and apertures were wider for the power and precision grip tasks. Overall the differences in spatial and temporal kinematics of movements between environments were greater than those due only to wearing the cyberglove/grasp system. Differences in movement kinematics due to the viewing environment were likely due to a lack of prior experience with the virtual environment an uncertainty of object location and the restricted field-of-view when wearing the head-mounted display. The results can be used to inform the design and disposition of objects within 3D VEs for the study of the control of prehension and for upper limb rehabilitation. Comparison of grasping movements made by healthy subjects in a 3-dimensional immersive virtual versus physical environment.