Building automated cancer screening systems based on image analysis is currently a hot topic in computer vision and medical imaging community. One of the biggest challenges of such systems especially those using state-of-the-art deep learning techniques is that they usually require a large amount of training data to be accurate. However in the medical field the confidentiality of the data and the need for medical expertise to label them significantly reduce the amount of training data available. A common practice to overcome this problem is to apply data set augmentation techniques to artificially increase the size of the training data set. Classical data set augmentation methods such as geometrical or color transformations are efficient but still produce a limited amount of new data. Hence there has been interest in data set augmentation methods using generative models able to synthesize a wider variety of new data. VitaDX is actually developing an automated bladder cancer screening system based on the analysis of cell images contained in urinary cytology digital slides. Currently the number of available labeled cell images is limited and therefore exploitation of the full potential of deep learning techniques is not possible. In an attempt to increase the number of labeled cell images a new generic generator for 2D cell images has been developed and is described in this article. This framework combines previous works on cell image generation and a recent style transfer method referred to as doodle-style transfer in this article. To the best of our knowledge we are the first to use a doodle-style transfer method for synthetic cell image generation. This framework is quite modular and could be applied to other cell image generation problems. A statistical evaluation has shown that features of real and synthetic cell images followed roughly the same distribution. Finally the realism of the synthetic cell images has been assessed through a visual evaluation performed with the help of medical experts.  2019 The Authors. Cytometry Part A published by Wiley Periodicals Inc. on behalf of International Society for Advancement of Cytometry. Generic Isolated Cell Image Generator.