Whole-body attenuation correction AC is still challenging in combined PET/MR scanners. We describe Dixon-VIBE Deep Learning DIVIDE a deep-learning network that allows synthesizing pelvis pseudo-CT maps based only on the standard Dixon volumetric interpolated breath-hold examination Dixon-VIBE images currently acquired for AC in some commercial scanners. Methods: We propose a network that maps between the four 2-dimensional 2D Dixon MR images water fat in-phase and out-of-phase and their corresponding 2D CT image. In contrast to previous methods we used transposed convolutions to learn the up-sampling parameters we used whole 2D slices to provide context information and we pretrained the network with brain images. Twenty-eight datasets obtained from 19 patients who underwent PET/CT and PET/MR examinations were used to evaluate the proposed method. We assessed the accuracy of the -maps and reconstructed PET images by performing voxel- and region-based analysis comparing the SUVs in g/mL obtained after AC using the Dixon-VIBE PETDixon DIVIDE PETDIVIDE and CT-based PETCT methods. Additionally the bias in quantification was estimated in synthetic lesions defined in the prostate rectum pelvis and spine. Results: Absolute mean relative change values relative to CT AC were lower than 2% on average for the DIVIDE method in every region of interest except for bone tissue where it was lower than 4% and 6.75 times smaller than the relative change of the Dixon method. There was an excellent voxel-by-voxel correlation between PETCT and PETDIVIDE R 2 = 0.9998 P < 0.01. The Bland-Altman plot between PETCT and PETDIVIDE showed that the average of the differences and the variability were lower mean PETCT-PETDIVIDE SUV 0.0003; PETCT-PETDIVIDE SD 0.0094; 95% confidence interval -0.01800.0188 than the average of differences between PETCT and PETDixon mean PETCT-PETDixon SUV 0.0006; PETCT-PETDixon SD 0.0264; 95% confidence interval -0.05100.0524. Statistically significant changes in PET data quantification were observed between the 2 methods in the synthetic lesions with the largest improvement in femur and spine lesions. Conclusion: The DIVIDE method can accurately synthesize a pelvis pseudo-CT scan from standard Dixon-VIBE images allowing for accurate AC in combined PET/MR scanners. Additionally our implementation allows rapid pseudo-CT synthesis making it suitable for routine applications and even allowing retrospective processing of Dixon-VIBE data. Dixon-VIBE Deep Learning DIVIDE Pseudo-CT Synthesis for Pelvis PET/MR Attenuation Correction.