"Nowadays there is the hope that neuroscientific findings will contribute to the improvement of building design in order to create environments which satisfy mans demands. This can be achieved through the understanding of neurophysiological correlates of architectural perception. To this aim the electroencephalographic EEG signals of 12 healthy subjects were recorded during the perception of three immersive virtual reality environments VEs. Afterwards participants were asked to describe their experience in terms of Familiarity Novelty Comfort Pleasantness Arousal and Presence using a rating scale from 1 to 9. These perceptual dimensions are hypothesized to influence the pattern of cerebral spectral activity while Presence is used to assess the realism of the virtual stimulation. Hence the collected scores were used to analyze the Power Spectral Density PSD of the EEG for each behavioral dimension in the theta alpha and mu bands by means of time-frequency analysis and topographic statistical maps. Analysis of Presence resulted in the activation of the frontal-midline theta indicating the involvement of sensorimotor integration mechanisms when subjects expressed to feel more present in the VEs. Similar patterns also characterized the experience of familiar and comfortable VEs. In addition pleasant VEs increased the theta power across visuomotor circuits and activated the alpha band in areas devoted to visuospatial exploration and processing of categorical spatial relations. Finally the de-synchronization of the mu rhythm described the perception of pleasant and comfortable VEs showing the involvement of left motor areas and embodied mechanisms for environment appreciation. Overall these results show the possibility to measure EEG correlates of architectural perception involving the cerebral circuits of sensorimotor integration spatial navigation and embodiment. These observations can help testing architectural hypotheses in order to design environments matching the changing needs of humans." Electroencephalographic Correlates of Sensorimotor Integration and Embodiment during the Appreciation of Virtual Architectural Environments.