Purpose: Evidence is increasing for effective virtual reality therapy for motor rehabilitation for children with Cerebral Palsy. We assessed the feasibility of a virtual reality therapy mode of intervention appropriateness of measures and potential cost-effectiveness. Methods: A 12-week 2-group parallel-feasibility trial ISRCT 17624388 using Nintendo Wii FitTM at home. Children aged 5-16 with ambulatory Cerebral Palsy who were able to follow simple instructions were randomised to two groups; one supported by physiotherapists individualised activity programme the other unsupported with children having free choice control. Children were assessed in clinic at baseline week 6 and week 12 by blinded assessors. Feasibility of the intervention was assessed via recruitment adherence and usefulness of measurement tools. Results: Forty-four children were eligible out of 48 approached: 31 consented 30 were randomised 21 completed the study; 10 in the supported group and 11 in the unsupported group. Nine children discontinued from tiredness after-school activities homework surgery technical difficulties or negative system feedback. The supported group completed 19 of 36 IQR 5-35 possible sessions; the unsupported group 24 of 36 sessions IQR 8-36. Gross Motor Function Measure scores varied by Cerebral Palsy severity after the intervention. There were no adverse events. Conclusion: Virtual reality therapy offers potential as a therapeutic adjunct for children with Cerebral Palsy warranting substantive confirmatory study. Gross Motor Function Measure with modifications to improve sensitivity appeared appropriate as a primary measure with Timed up and Go test secondary. The intervention was inexpensive costing 20 per child. An explanatory trial to evaluate the clinical/cost-effectiveness of commercial system virtual reality therapy is feasible with minor methodological adaptation. Implications for rehabilitation Home-based interactive computer gaming was feasible safe and cost effective as a therapy adjunct. Discontinue if additional pressures are present: imminent surgery family resilience to technical difficulties negative system feedback after-school activities. Change in Gross Motor Function Measurement scores varied by severity of Cerebral Palsy. Feasibility of a randomised controlled trial to evaluate home-based virtual reality therapy in children with cerebral palsy.