"Scientific evidence for the viability of hypnosis as a treatment for pain has flourished over the past two decades Rainville Duncan Price Carrier and Bushnell 1997; Montgomery DuHamel and Redd 2000; Lang and Rosen 2002; Patterson and Jensen 2003. However its widespread use has been limited by factors such as the advanced expertise time and effort required by clinicians to provide hypnosis and the cognitive effort required by patients to engage in hypnosis.The theory in developing virtual reality hypnosis was to apply three-dimensional immersive virtual reality technology to guide the patient through the same steps used when hypnosis is induced through an interpersonal process. Virtual reality replaces many of the stimuli that the patients have to struggle to imagine via verbal cueing from the therapist. The purpose of this paper is to explore how virtual reality may be useful in delivering hypnosis and to summarize the scientific literature to date. We will also explore various theoretical and methodological issues that can guide future research.In spite of the encouraging scientific and clinical findings hypnosis for analgesia is not universally used in medical centres. One reason for the slow acceptance is the extensive provider training required in order for hypnosis to be an effective pain management modality. Training in hypnosis is not commonly offered in medical schools or even psychology graduate curricula. Another reason is that hypnosis requires far more time and effort to administer than an analgesic pill or injection. Hypnosis requires training skill and patience to deliver in medical centres that are often fast-paced and highly demanding of clinician time. Finally the attention and cognitive effort required for hypnosis may be more than patients in an acute care setting who may be under the influence of opiates and benzodiazepines are able to impart. It is a challenge to make hypnosis a standard part of care in this environment.Over the past 25 years researchers have been investigating ways to make hypnosis more standardized and accessible. There have been a handful of studies that have looked at the efficacy of using audiotapes to provide the hypnotic intervention Johnson and Wiese 1979; Hart 1980; Block Ghoneim Sum Ping and Ali 1991; Enqvist Bjorklund Engman and Jakobsson 1997; Eberhart Doring Holzrichter Roscher and Seeling 1998; Perugini Kirsch Allen et al. 1998; Forbes MacAuley Chiotakakou-Faliakou 2000; Ghoneim Block Sarasin Davis and Marchman 2000. These studies have yielded mixed results. Generally we can conclude that audio-taped hypnosis is more effective than no treatment at all but less effective than the presence of a live hypnotherapist. Grant and Nash 1995 were the first to use computer-assisted hypnosis as a behavioural measure to assess hypnotizability. They used a digitized voice that guided subjects through a procedure and tailored software according to the subjects unique responses and reactions. However it utilized conventional two-dimensional screen technology that required patients to focus their attention on a computer screen making them vulnerable to any type of distraction that might enter the environment. Further the two-dimensional technology did not present compelling visual stimuli for capturing the users attention." VIRTUAL REALITY HYPNOSIS.