Early childhood 7-8 years old and early adolescence 11-12 years old constitute two landmark developmental stages that comprise considerable changes in neural cognition. However very limited information from functional neuroimaging studies exists on the functional topological configuration of the human brain during specific developmental periods. In the present study we utilized continuous resting-state functional near-infrared spectroscopy rs-fNIRS imaging data to examine topological changes in network organization during development from early childhood and early adolescence to adulthood. Our results showed that the properties of small-worldness and modularity were not significantly different across development demonstrating the developmental maturity of important functional brain organization in early childhood. Intriguingly young children had a significantly lower global efficiency than early adolescents and adults which revealed that the integration of the distributed networks strengthens across the developmental stages underlying cognitive development. Moreover local efficiency of young children and adolescents was significantly lower than that of adults while there was no difference between these two younger groups. This finding demonstrated that functional segregation remained relatively steady from early childhood to early adolescence and the brain in these developmental periods possesses no optimal network configuration. Furthermore we found heterogeneous developmental patterns in the regional nodal properties in various brain regions such as linear increased nodal properties in the frontal cortex indicating increasing cognitive capacity over development. Collectively our results demonstrated that significant topological changes in functional network organization occurred during these two critical developmental stages and provided a novel insight into elucidating subtle changes in brain functional networks across development. The development of functional network organization in early childhood and early adolescence: A resting-state fNIRS study.