"COLD TECHNOLOGIES AND WARM HANDS-ON MEDICINE NEED TO WALK HAND-IN-HAND: Technologies such as deep learning artificial intelligence AI promise benign solutions to thorny complex problems; but this view is misguided. Though AI has revolutionised aspects of technical medicine it has brought in its wake practical conceptual pedagogical and ethical conundrums. For example widespread adoption of technologies threatens to shift emphasis from hands-on embodied clinical work to disembodied technology enhanced fuzzy scenarios muddying ethical responsibilities. Where AI can offer a powerful sharpening of diagnostic accuracy and treatment options cold technologies and warm hands-on medicine need to walk hand-in-hand. This presents a pedagogical challenge grounded in historical precedent: in the wake of Vesalian anatomy introducing the dominant metaphor of body as machine a medicine of qualities was devalued through the rise of instrumental scientific medicine. The AI age in medicine promises to redouble the machine metaphor reducing complex patient experiences to linear problem-solving interventions promising solutionism. As an instrumental intervention AI can objectify patients frustrating the benefits of dialogue as patients complex and often unpredictable fleshly experiences of illness are recalculated in solution-focused computational terms. SUSPICIONS ABOUT SOLUTIONS: The rate of change in numbers and sophistication of new technologies is daunting; they include surgical robotics implants computer programming and genetic interventions such as clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats CRISPR. Contributing to the focus of this issue on solutionism we explore how AI is often promoted as an all-encompassing answer to complex problems including the pedagogical where learning hands-on bedside medicine has proven benefits beyond the technical. Where AI and embodied medicine have differing epistemological ontological and axiological roots we must not imagine that they will readily walk hand-in-hand down the aisle towards a happy marriage. Their union will be fractious requiring lifelong guidance provided by a perceptive medical education suspicious of smart solutions to complex problems." "Where medical education meets artificial intelligence: Does technology care?"