Functional MRI fMRI is an indirect measure of neural activity as a result of the convolution of the hemodynamic response function HRF and latent unmeasured neural activity. Recent studies have shown variability of HRF across brain regions intra-subject spatial variability and between subjects inter-subject variability. Ignoring this HRF variability during data analysis could impair the reliability of such fMRI results. Using whole-brain resting-state fMRI rs-fMRI we employed hemodynamic deconvolution to estimate voxel-wise HRF. Studying the impact of mental disorders on HRF variability we identified HRF aberrations in soldiers N\xa0=\xa087 with posttraumatic stress disorder PTSD and mild-traumatic brain injury mTBI compared to combat controls. Certain subcortical and default-mode regions were found to have significant HRF aberrations in the clinical groups. These brain regions have been previously associated with neurochemical alterations in PTSD which are known to impact the shape of the HRF. We followed-up these findings with seed-based functional connectivity FC analysis using regions-of-interest ROIs whose HRFs differed between the groups. We found that part of the connectivity group differences reported from traditional FC analysis no deconvolution were attributable to HRF variability. These findings raise the question of the degree of reliability of findings from conventional rs-fMRI studies especially in psychiatric populations like PTSD and mTBI which are corrupted by HRF variability. We also report and discus for the first time voxel-level HRF alterations in PTSD and mTBI. To the best of our knowledge this is the first study to report evidence for the impact of HRF variability on connectivity group differences. Our work has implications for rs-fMRI connectivity studies. We encourage researchers to incorporate hemodynamic deconvolution during pre-processing to minimize the impact of HRF variability. Hemodynamic variability in soldiers with trauma: Implications for functional MRI connectivity studies.