"This study determines the feasibility of using virtual reality VR for residents with and without dementia in the residential aged care RAC environment also referred to as nursing homes or long-term care. A mixed-methods study was conducted with 13 residents of varying cognitive capacity in a residential aged care facility RACF operated by a not-for-profit organization in Brisbane Australia. Residents participated in one facilitated VR session either as a group or individual session. Residents mood and apathy were measured by the Observed Emotion Rating Scale OERS and the Person-Environment Apathy Rating Scale. Residents also completed a structured interview to provide their feedback after the VR session. In addition four RACF staff members were interviewed about their experience of using the VR in residents and the ongoing feasibility. The experience of VR administered by a researcher and leisure and lifestyle coordinator as a leisure activity significantly reduced apathy in residents Z\u2009=\u2009-2.818 p\u2009=\u20090.005 through observations of increased facial expression eye contact physical engagement verbal tone and expression. The study did not find a VR impact on the OERS measures; no significant increase in fear/anxiety was observed. Reminiscence was clearly observed in six of the nine residents with the ability to verbally communicate. VR was found not to be helpful in residents during episodes of acute neuropsychiatric and behavioral symptoms. This study suggested feasibility of using fully immersive VR delivered by mobile phone technologies. It provides preliminary data for a controlled trial presently underway examining the effectiveness of VR as a group activity in RAC to improve mood states behavioral symptoms and pro re nata psychotropic medication use. Residents indicated that VR was enjoyable with low levels of physical and emotional discomfort reported or observed." Preliminary Research: Virtual Reality in Residential Aged Care to Reduce Apathy and Improve Mood.