Spectral-domain optical coherence tomography SDOCT is a noncontact and noninvasive imaging technology offering three-dimensional 3-D objective and quantitative assessment of optic nerve head ONH in human eyes in vivo. The image quality of SDOCT scans is crucial for an accurate and reliable interpretation of ONH structure and for further detection of diseases. Traditionally signal strength SS is used as an index to include or exclude SDOCT scans for further analysis. However it is insufficient to assess other image quality issues such as off-centration out of registration missing data motion artifacts mirror artifacts or blurriness which require specialized knowledge in SDOCT for such assessment. We proposed a deep learning system DLS as an automated tool for filtering out ungradable SDOCT volumes. In total 5599 SDOCT ONH volumes were collected for training 80% and primary validation 20%. Other 711 and 298 volumes from two independent datasets respectively were used for external validation. An SDOCT volume was labeled as ungradable when SS was < 5 or when any artifacts influenced the measurement circle or > 25 % of the peripheral area. Artifacts included 1\xa0off-centration 2\xa0out of registration 3\xa0missing signal 4\xa0motion artifacts 5\xa0mirror artifacts and 6\xa0blurriness. An SDOCT volume was labeled as gradable when SS was  5  and there was an absence of any artifacts or artifacts only influenced < 25 % peripheral area but not the retinal nerve fiber layer calculation circle. We developed and validated a 3-D DLS based on squeeze-and-excitation ResNeXt blocks and experimented with different training strategies. The area under the receiver operating characteristic curve AUC sensitivity specificity and accuracy were calculated to evaluate the performance. Heatmaps were generated by gradient-weighted class activation map. Our findings show that the presented DLS achieved a good performance in both primary and external validations which could potentially increase the efficiency and accuracy of SDOCT volumetric scans quality control by filtering out ungradable ones automatically. Artificial intelligence deep learning algorithm for discriminating ungradable optical coherence tomography three-dimensional volumetric optic disc scans.