"Freezing of gait is a complex heterogeneous and highly variable phenomenon whose pathophysiology and neural signature remains enigmatic. Evidence suggests that freezing is associated with impairments across cognitive motor and affective domains; however most research to date has focused on investigating one axis of freezing of gait in isolation. This has led to inconsistent findings and a range of different pathophysiological models of freezing of gait due in large part to the tendency for studies to investigate freezing of gait as a homogeneous entity. To investigate the neural mechanisms of this heterogeneity we used an established virtual reality paradigm to elicit freezing behaviour in 41 Parkinsons disease patients with freezing of gait and examined individual differences in the component processes i.e. cognitive motor and affective function that underlie freezing of gait in conjunction with task-based functional MRI. First we combined three unique components of the freezing phenotype: impaired set-shifting ability step time variability and self-reported anxiety and depression in a principal components analysis to estimate the severity of freezing behaviour with a multivariate approach. By combining these measures we were then able to interrogate the pattern of task-based functional connectivity associated with freezing compared to normal foot tapping in a sub-cohort of 20 participants who experienced sufficient amounts of freezing during task functional MRI. Specifically we used the first principal component from our behavioural analysis to classify patterns of functional connectivity into those that were associated with: i increased severity; ii increased compensation; or iii those that were independent of freezing severity. Coupling between the cognitive and limbic networks was associated with worse freezing severity whereas anti-coupling between the putamen and the cognitive and limbic networks was related to increased compensation. Additionally anti-coupling between cognitive cortical regions and the caudate nucleus were independent of freezing severity and thus may represent common neural underpinnings of freezing that are unaffected by heterogenous factors. Finally we related these connectivity patterns to each of the individual components cognitive motor affective in turn thus exposing latent heterogeneity in the freezing phenotype while also identifying critical functional network signatures that may represent potential targets for novel therapeutic intervention. In conclusion our findings provide confirmatory evidence for systems-level impairments in the pathophysiology of freezing of gait and further advance our understanding of the whole-brain deficits that mediate symptom expression in Parkinsons disease." The functional network signature of heterogeneity in freezing of gait.