"If the brain is a complex network of functionally specialized areas it might be expected that mental representations could also behave in a similar way. We propose the concept of psychonectome to formalize the idea of psychological constructs forming a dynamic network of mutually dependent elements. As a proof-of-concept of the psychonectome networks analysis NA was used to explore structural changes in the network of constructs resulting from a psychological intervention. NA was applied to explore the effects of an 8-week Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction MBSR program in healthy participants N = 182. Psychological functioning was measured by questionnaires assessing five key domains related to MBSR: mindfulness compassion psychological well-being psychological distress and emotional-cognitive control. A total of 25 variables covering the five constructs were considered as nodes in the NA. Participants significantly improved in most of the psychological questionnaires. More interesting from a network perspective there were also significant changes in the topological relationships among the elements. Expected influence and strength centrality indexes revealed that mindfulness and well-being measures were the most central nodes in the networks. The nodes with highest topological change after the MBSR were attentional control compassion measures depression and thought suppression. Also cognitive appraisal an adaptive emotion regulation strategy was associated to rumination before the MBSR program but became related to mindfulness and well-being measures after the program. Community analysis revealed a strong topological association between mindfulness compassion and emotional regulation which supports the key role of compassion in mindfulness training. These results highlight the importance of exploring psychological changes from a network perspective and support the conceptual advantage of considering the interconnectedness of psychological constructs in terms of a psychonectome as it may reveal ways of functioning that cannot be analyzed through conventional analytic methods." Does mindfulness change the mind? A novel psychonectome perspective based on Network Analysis.