For AI researchers access to a large and well-curated dataset is crucial. Working in the field of breast radiology our aim was to develop a high-quality platform that can be used for evaluation of networks aiming to predict breast cancer risk estimate mammographic sensitivity and detect tumors. Our dataset Cohort of Screen-Aged Women CSAW is a population-based cohort of all women 40 to 74\xa0years of age invited to screening in the Stockholm region Sweden between 2008 and 2015. All women were invited to mammography screening every 18 to 24\xa0months free of charge. Images were collected from the PACS of the three breast centers that completely cover the region. DICOM metadata were collected together with the images. Screening decisions and clinical outcome data were collected by linkage to the regional cancer center registers. Incident cancer cases from one center were pixel-level annotated by a radiologist. A separate subset for efficient evaluation of external networks was defined for the uptake area of one center. The collection and use of the dataset for the purpose of AI research has been approved by the Ethical Review Board. CSAW included 499807 women invited to screening between 2008 and 2015 with a total of 1182733 completed screening examinations. Around 2 million mammography images have currently been collected including all images for women who developed breast cancer. There were 10582 women diagnosed with breast cancer; for 8463 it was their first breast cancer. Clinical data include biopsy-verified breast cancer diagnoses histological origin tumor size lymph node status Elston grade and receptor status. One thousand eight hundred ninety-one images of 898 women had tumors pixel level annotated including any tumor signs in the prior negative screening mammogram. Our dataset has already been used for evaluation by several research groups. We have defined a high-volume platform for training and evaluation of deep neural networks in the domain of mammographic imaging. A Multi-million Mammography Image Dataset and Population-Based Screening Cohort for the Training and Evaluation of Deep Neural Networks-the Cohort of Screen-Aged Women CSAW.