In this review we focus on neuronal operant conditioning in which increments in neuronal activities are directly rewarded without behaviors. We discuss the potential of this approach to elucidate neuronal plasticity for enhancing specific brain functions and its interaction with the progress in neurorehabilitation and brain-machine interfaces. The key to-be-conditioned activities that this paper emphasizes are synchronous and oscillatory firings of multiple neurons that reflect activities of cell assemblies. First we introduce certain well-known studies on neuronal operant conditioning in which conditioned enhancements of neuronal firing were reported in animals and humans. These studies demonstrated the feasibility of volitional control over neuronal activity. Second we refer to the recent studies on operant conditioning of synchrony and oscillation of neuronal activities. In particular we introduce a recent study showing volitional enhancement of oscillatory activity in monkey motor cortex and our study showing selective enhancement of firing synchrony of neighboring neurons in rat hippocampus. Third we discuss the reasons for emphasizing firing synchrony and oscillation in neuronal operant conditioning the main reason being that they reflect the activities of cell assemblies which have been suggested to be basic neuronal codes representing information in the brain. Finally we discuss the interaction of neuronal operant conditioning with neurorehabilitation and brain-machine interface BMI. We argue that synchrony and oscillation of neuronal firing are the key activities required for developing both reliable neurorehabilitation and high-performance BMI. Further we conclude that research of neuronal operant conditioning neurorehabilitation BMI and system neuroscience will produce findings applicable to these interrelated fields and neuronal synchrony and oscillation can be a common important bridge among all of them. Volitional enhancement of firing synchrony and oscillation by neuronal operant conditioning: interaction with neurorehabilitation and brain-machine interface.