Brain connectivity studies report group differences in pairwise connection strengths. While informative such results are difficult to interpret since our understanding of the brain relies on region-based properties rather than on connection information. Given that large disruptions in the brain are often caused by a few pivotal sources we propose a novel framework to identify the sources of functional disruption from effective connectivity networks. Our approach integrates static and time-varying effective connectivity modeling in a probabilistic framework to identify aberrant foci and the corresponding aberrant connectomics network. Using resting-state fMRI we illustrate the utility of this novel approach in U.S. Army soldiers N\u2009=\u200987 with posttraumatic stress disorder PTSD mild traumatic brain injury mTBI and combat controls. Additionally we employed machine-learning classification to identify those significant connectivity features that possessed high predictive ability. We identified three disrupted foci middle frontal gyrus MFG insula hippocampus and an aberrant prefrontal-subcortical-parietal network of information flow. We found the MFG to be the pivotal focus of network disruption with aberrant strength and temporal-variability of effective connectivity to the insula amygdala and hippocampus. These connectivities also possessed high predictive ability giving a classification accuracy of 81%; and they exhibited significant associations with symptom severity and neurocognitive functioning. In summary dysregulation originating in the MFG caused elevated and temporally less-variable connectivity in subcortical regions followed by a similar effect on parietal memory-related regions. This mechanism likely contributes to the reduced control over traumatic memories leading to re-experiencing hyperarousal and flashbacks observed in soldiers with PTSD and mTBI. Hum Brain Mapp 39:264-287 2018. Identifying disease foci from static and dynamic effective connectivity networks: Illustration in soldiers with trauma.