Data representation learning is one of the most important problems in machine learning. Unsupervised representation learning becomes meritorious as it has no necessity of label information with observed data. Due to the highly time-consuming learning of deep-learning models there are many machine-learning models directly adapting well-trained deep models that are obtained in a supervised and end-to-end manner as feature abstractors to distinct problems. However it is obvious that different machine-learning tasks require disparate representation of original input data. Taking human action recognition as an example it is well known that human actions in a video sequence are 3-D signals containing both visual appearance and motion dynamics of humans and objects. Therefore the data representation approaches with the capabilities to capture both spatial and temporal correlations in videos are meaningful. Most of the existing human motion recognition models build classifiers based on deep-learning structures such as deep convolutional networks. These models require a large quantity of training videos with annotations. Meanwhile these supervised models cannot recognize samples from the distinct dataset without retraining. In this article we propose a new 3-D deconvolutional network 3DDN for representation learning of high-dimensional video data in which the high-level features are obtained through the optimization approach. The proposed 3DDN decomposes the video frames into spatiotemporal features under a sparse constraint in an unsupervised way. In addition it also can be regarded as a building block to develop deep architectures by stacking. The high-level representation of input sequential data can be used in multiple downstream machine-learning tasks we evaluate the proposed 3DDN and its deep models in human action recognition. The experimental results from three datasets: 1 KTH data; 2 HMDB-51; and 3 UCF-101 demonstrate that the proposed 3DDN is an alternative approach to feedforward convolutional neural networks CNNs that attains comparable results. 3-D Deconvolutional Networks for the Unsupervised Representation Learning of Human Motions.