Standard brain stimulation protocols modify human motor cortex excitability by modulating the gain of the activated corticospinal pathways. However the restoration of motor function following lesions of the corticospinal tract requires also the recruitment of additional neurons to increase the net corticospinal output. For this purpose we investigated a novel protocol based on brain state-dependent paired associative stimulation.Motor imagery MI-related electroencephalography was recorded in healthy males and females for brain state-dependent control of both cortical and peripheral stimulation in a brain-machine interface environment. State-dependency was investigated with concurrent delayed and independent stimulation relative to the MI task. Specifically sensorimotor event-related desynchronization ERD in the -band 16-22 Hz triggered peripheral stimulation through passive hand opening by a robotic orthosis and transcranial magnetic stimulation to the respective cortical motor representation either synchronously or subsequently. These MI-related paradigms were compared with paired cortical and peripheral input applied independent of the brain state. Cortical stimulation resulted in a significant increase in corticospinal excitability only when applied brain state-dependently and synchronously to peripheral input. These gains were resistant to a depotentiation task revealed a nonlinear evolution of plasticity and were mediated via the recruitment of additional corticospinal neurons rather than via synchronization of neuronal firing. Recruitment of additional corticospinal pathways may be achieved when cortical and peripheral inputs are applied concurrently and during -ERD. These findings resemble a gating mechanism and are potentially important for developing closed-loop brain stimulation for the treatment of hand paralysis following lesions of the corticospinal tract.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT The activity state of the motor system influences the excitability of corticospinal pathways to external input. State-dependent interventions harness this property to increase the connectivity between motor cortex and muscles. These stimulation protocols modulate the gain of the activated pathways but not the overall corticospinal recruitment. In this study a brain-machine interface paired peripheral stimulation through passive hand opening with transcranial magnetic stimulation to the respective cortical motor representation during volitional -band desynchronization. Cortical stimulation resulted in the recruitment of additional corticospinal pathways but only when applied brain state-dependently and synchronously to peripheral input. These effects resemble a gating mechanism and may be important for the restoration of motor function following lesions of the corticospinal tract. Recruitment of Additional Corticospinal Pathways in the Human Brain with State-Dependent Paired Associative Stimulation.