"Visual P300-based Brain-Computer Interface BCI spellers enable communication or interaction with the environment by flashing elements in a matrix and exploiting consequent changes in end-users brain activity. Despite research efforts performance variability and BCI-illiteracy still are critical issues for real world applications. Moreover there is a quite unaddressed kind of BCI-illiteracy which becomes apparent when the same end-user operates BCI-spellers intended for different applications: our aim is to understand why some well performers can become BCI-illiterate depending on speller type. We manipulated stimulus type factor STIM: either characters or icons color factor COLOR: white green and timing factor SPEED: fast slow. Each BCI session consisted of training without feedback and performance phase with feedback both in copy-spelling. For fast flashing spellers we observed a performance worsening for white icon-speller. Our findings are consistent with existing results reported on end-users using identical whitefast spellers indicating independence of worsening trend from users group. The use of slow stimulation timing shed a new light on the perceptual and cognitive phenomena related to the use of a BCI-speller during both the training and the performance phase. We found a significant STIM main effect for the N1 component on P z and PO7 during the training phase and on PO8 during the performance phase whereas in both phases neither the STIMCOLOR interaction nor the COLOR main effect was statistically significant. After collapsing data for factor COLOR it emerged a statistically significant modulation of N1 amplitude depending to the phase of BCI session: N1 was more negative for icons than for characters both on P z and PO7 training whereas the opposite modulation was observed for PO8 performance. Results indicate that both feedback and expertise with respect to the stimulus type can modulate the N1 component and that icons require more perceptual analysis. Therefore fast flashing is likely to be more detrimental for end-users performance in case of icon-spellers. In conclusion the interplay between stimulus type and timing seems relevant for a satisfactory and efficient end-users BCI-experience." The Role of the Interplay between Stimulus Type and Timing in Explaining BCI-Illiteracy for Visual P300-Based Brain-Computer Interfaces.