"Nowadays deep learning methods based on a virtual environment are widely applied to research and technology development for autonomous vehicles smart sensors and devices. Learning various driving environments in advance is important to handle unexpected situations that can exist in the real world and to continue driving without accident. For training smart sensors and devices of an autonomous vehicle well a virtual simulator should create scenarios of various possible real-world situations. To create reality-based scenarios data on the real environment must be collected from a real driving vehicle or a scenario analysis process conducted by experts. However these two approaches increase the period and the cost of scenario generation as more scenarios are created. This paper proposes a scenario generation method based on deep learning to create scenarios automatically for training autonomous vehicle smart sensors and devices. To generate various scenarios the proposed method extracts multiple events from a video which is taken on a real road by using deep learning and generates the multiple event in a virtual simulator. First Faster-region based convolution neural network Faster-RCNN extracts bounding boxes of each object in a driving video. Second the high-level event bounding boxes are calculated. Third long-term recurrent convolution networks LRCN classify each type of extracted event. Finally all multiple event classification results are combined into one scenario. The generated scenarios can be used in an autonomous driving simulator to teach multiple events that occur during real-world driving. To verify the performance of the proposed scenario generation method experiments using real driving video data and a virtual simulator were conducted. The results for deep learning model show an accuracy of 95.6%; furthermore multiple high-level events were extracted and various scenarios were generated in a virtual simulator for smart sensors and devices of an autonomous vehicle." Multiple Event-Based Simulation Scenario Generation Approach for Autonomous Vehicle Smart Sensors and Devices.