For almost a decade research has been conducted in many areas of science to develop medical simulation training devices and even comprehensive training systems. To propel the field the Telemedicine and Advanced Technology Research Center TATRC an agency of the United States Army Medical Research Materiel Command USAMRMC has been managing a portfolio of research projects in the area of Medical Modeling and Simulation MM&S since 1999. Significant progress has made to identify and harness enabling technologies. Generally these developments can be categorized in four areas: 1 PC-based interactive multimedia 2 Digitally Enhanced Mannequins 3 Virtual Workbench or "part-task" simulators and 4 Total Immersion Virtual Reality TIVR. Many medical simulation-training systems have shown great potential to improve medical training but the potential shown has been based largely on anecdotal feedback from informal user studies. Formal assessment is needed to determine the degree to which simulators train medical skills and the degree to which skills learned on a simulator transfer to the practice of care. A robust methodology is required as a basis for these assessments. Several scientific workshops sponsored in 2001 focused on algorithm and metrics development in support of surgical simulation. Also in 2001 TATRC chartered a Simulation Working Group SWG to develop a robust methodology upon which to base an assessment of the effectiveness of simulation training devices and systems. After the terrorist attacks of September 11 2001 attention was redirected for a period and progress was delayed. In the summer of 2002 TATRC chartered a follow-on group called the Validation Metrics and Simulation VMAS Committee. The poster will highlight and summarize the development of the methodology and identify validation studies to be conducted supported by various funding sources and research programs. The interaction between TATRC and the National Capital Area Medical Simulation Center NCAMSC will be noted. Validation of medical modeling & simulation training devices and systems.