"In this paper we computationally generate hypotheses for dose-finding studies in the context of desynchronizing neuromodulation techniques. Abnormally strong neuronal synchronization is a hallmark of several brain disorders. Coordinated Reset CR stimulation is a spatio-temporally patterned stimulation technique that specifically aims at disrupting abnormal neuronal synchrony. In networks with spike-timing-dependent plasticity CR stimulation may ultimately cause an anti-kindling i.e. an unlearning of abnormal synaptic connectivity and neuronal synchrony. This long-lasting desynchronization was theoretically predicted and verified in several pre-clinical and clinical studies. We have shown that CR stimulation with rapidly varying sequences RVS robustly induces an anti-kindling at low intensities e.g. if the CR stimulation frequency i.e. stimulus pattern repetition rate is in the range of the frequency of the neuronal oscillation. In contrast CR stimulation with slowly varying sequences SVS turned out to induce an anti-kindling more strongly but less robustly with respect to variations of the CR stimulation frequency. Motivated by clinical constraints and inspired by the spacing principle of learning theory in this computational study we propose a short-term dosage regimen that enables a robust anti-kindling effect of both RVS and SVS CR stimulation also for those parameter values where RVS and SVS CR stimulation previously turned out to be ineffective. Intriguingly for the vast majority of parameter values tested spaced multishot CR stimulation with demand-controlled variation of stimulation frequency and intensity caused a robust and pronounced anti-kindling. In contrast spaced CR stimulation with fixed stimulation parameters as well as singleshot CR stimulation of equal integral duration failed to improve the stimulation outcome. In the model network under consideration our short-term dosage regimen enables to robustly induce long-term desynchronization at comparably short stimulation duration and low integral stimulation duration. Currently clinical proof of concept is available for deep brain CR stimulation for Parkinsons therapy and acoustic CR stimulation for tinnitus therapy. Promising first in human data is available for vibrotactile CR stimulation for Parkinsons treatment. For the clinical development of these treatments it is mandatory to perform dose-finding studies to reveal optimal stimulation parameters and dosage regimens. Our findings can straightforwardly be tested in human dose-finding studies." Short-Term Dosage Regimen for Stimulation-Induced Long-Lasting Desynchronization.