Accurate segmentation of pelvic organs is important for prostate radiation therapy. Modern radiation therapy starts to use a magnetic resonance image MRI as an alternative to computed tomography image because of its superior soft tissue contrast and also free of risk from radiation exposure. However segmentation of pelvic organs from MRI is a challenging problem due to inconsistent organ appearance across patients and also large intrapatient anatomical variations across treatment days. To address such challenges we propose a novel deep network architecture called "Spatially varying sTochastic Residual AdversarIal Network" STRAINet to delineate pelvic organs from MRI in an end-to-end fashion. Compared to the traditional fully convolutional networks FCN the proposed architecture has two main contributions: 1 inspired by the recent success of residual learning we propose an evolutionary version of the residual unit i.e. stochastic residual unit and use it to the plain convolutional layers in the FCN. We further propose long-range stochastic residual connections to pass features from shallow layers to deep layers; and 2 we propose to integrate three previously proposed network strategies to form a new network for better medical image segmentation: a we apply dilated convolution in the smallest resolution feature maps so that we can gain a larger receptive field without overly losing spatial information; b we propose a spatially varying convolutional layer that adapts convolutional filters to different regions of interest; and c an adversarial network is proposed to further correct the segmented organ structures. Finally STRAINet is used to iteratively refine the segmentation probability maps in an autocontext manner. Experimental results show that our STRAINet achieved the state-of-the-art segmentation accuracy. Further analysis also indicates that our proposed network components contribute most to the performance. STRAINet: Spatially Varying sTochastic Residual AdversarIal Networks for MRI Pelvic Organ Segmentation.