The purposes of this study are to evaluate the feasibility of protocol determination with a convolutional neural networks CNN classifier based on short-text classification and to evaluate the agreements by comparing protocols determined by CNN with those determined by musculoskeletal radiologists. Following institutional review board approval the database of a hospital information system HIS was queried for lists of MRI examinations referring department patient age and patient gender. These were exported to a local workstation for analyses: 5258 and 1018 consecutive musculoskeletal MRI examinations were used for the training and test datasets respectively. The subjects for pre-processing were routine or tumor protocols and the contents were word combinations of the referring department region contrast media or not gender and age. The CNN Embedded vector classifier was used with Word2Vec Google news vectors. The test set was tested with each classification model and results were output as routine or tumor protocols. The CNN determinations were evaluated using the receiver operating characteristic ROC curves. The accuracies were evaluated by a radiologist-confirmed protocol as the reference protocols. The optimal cut-off values for protocol determination between routine protocols and tumor protocols was 0.5067 with a sensitivity of 92.10% a specificity of 95.76% and an area under curve AUC of 0.977. The overall accuracy was 94.2% for the ConvNet model. All MRI protocols were correct in the pelvic bone upper arm wrist and lower leg MRIs. Deep-learning-based convolutional neural networks were clinically utilized to determine musculoskeletal MRI protocols. CNN-based text learning and applications could be extended to other radiologic tasks besides image interpretations improving the work performance of the radiologist. Efficiency Improvement in a Busy Radiology Practice: Determination of Musculoskeletal Magnetic Resonance Imaging Protocol Using Deep-Learning Convolutional Neural Networks.