Virtual reality VR technology has been successfully used to study the influence of specific and contextual food-related cues on emotional cognitive and behavioural responses in patients with eating disorders ED and healthy controls. Following this research line the present study assesses the effect on reported food craving of the type of food low calorie versus high calorie and the presence or absence of other people private versus social context in VR environments. Relationships between craving and body mass index BMI and ED symptoms are also explored. Eighty-seven female students were exposed to four VR scenarios presented in random order: a low-calorie kitchen a high-calorie kitchen a low-calorie restaurant and a high-calorie restaurant. After 2\u2009minutes of exposure to each virtual scenario food craving was assessed. Repeated measures analyses of covariance were conducted to assess changes in food craving following exposure to the different VR environments. Time elapsed since the last meal was introduced as a covariate to control for responses produced by food deprivation. Correlation and hierarchical multiple regression analyses were also conducted to assess the relationship between reported food craving and BMI and ED symptoms. Participants experienced higher levels of food craving after exposure to high-calorie foods in both the kitchen and restaurant environments than after exposure to low-calorie foods. Being alone in the kitchen or with friends in the restaurant had no effect on reported craving. Overall neither BMI nor ED symptoms were related with reported food craving; only in the restaurant with low-calorie food was a significant negative correlation found between BMI and food craving. The results suggest that cue exposure in virtual environments is an effective procedure for inducing food craving in healthy controls and may be useful as a research and therapeutic tool in clinical populations. Craving for Food in Virtual Reality Scenarios in Non-Clinical Sample: Analysis of its Relationship with Body Mass Index and Eating Disorder Symptoms.