"The increase of publicly available bioactivity data in recent years has fueled and catalyzed research in chemogenomics data mining and modeling approaches. As a direct result over the past few years a multitude of different methods have been reported and evaluated such as target fishing nearest neighbor similarity-based methods and Quantitative Structure Activity Relationship QSAR-based protocols. However such studies are typically conducted on different datasets using different validation strategies and different metrics. In this study different methods were compared using one single standardized dataset obtained from ChEMBL which is made available to the public using standardized metrics BEDROC and Matthews Correlation Coefficient. Specifically the performance of Nave Bayes Random Forests Support Vector Machines Logistic Regression and Deep Neural Networks was assessed using QSAR and proteochemometric PCM methods. All methods were validated using both a random split validation and a temporal validation with the latter being a more realistic benchmark of expected prospective execution. Deep Neural Networks are the top performing classifiers highlighting the added value of Deep Neural Networks over other more conventional methods. Moreover the best method DNN_PCM performed significantly better at almost one standard deviation higher than the mean performance. Furthermore Multi-task and PCM implementations were shown to improve performance over single task Deep Neural Networks. Conversely target prediction performed almost two standard deviations under the mean performance. Random Forests Support Vector Machines and Logistic Regression performed around mean performance. Finally using an ensemble of DNNs alongside additional tuning enhanced the relative performance by another 27% compared with unoptimized DNN_PCM. Here a standardized set to test and evaluate different machine learning algorithms in the context of multi-task learning is offered by providing the data and the protocols. Graphical Abstract ." Beyond the hype: deep neural networks outperform established methods using a ChEMBL bioactivity benchmark set.