We examined and analyzed binocular imbalance in a group of randomly selected normal subjects with corrected visual acuity of 0.8 or more in both eyes without ocular diseases by using augmented virtual reality system. This study will quantify the correlation between binocular imbalance in these normal subjects and various spatial frequencies and temporal frequencies in the integrated binocular stimulation mode. A retrospective study was carried out and data from 97 patients 51 males and 46 females who were diagnosed with no eye diseases and with corrected binocular visual acuity of 0.8 or more were collected. Their binocular visual function Hirschberg test refraction status and binocular imbalance were assessed using the quantified visual perception stimulation mode in an augmented virtual reality platform. When normal subjects with corrected binocular vision of 0.8 or more without ocular diseases were assessed using the integrated binocular stimulation mode with different temporal and spatial frequencies a gradual reduction of binocular imbalance could be observed when spatial frequencies were increased. When contrast balance was adjusted binocular imbalance was more prevalent in the horizontal state compared with the vertical state. This was seen when patients were stimulated by different temporal frequencies in the virtual reality testing mode. 17.53% and 29.90% of participants reached complete binocular fusion under low temporal frequency stimulation and high temporal frequency stimulation respectively while binocular imbalance was found in 65.9% and 62.89% of participants who were stimulated respectively by low temporal frequency and high temporal frequency. In addition 16.5% and 7.21% experienced severe binocular imbalance under low temporal and high temporal frequency stimulation respectively. The integrated binocular stimulation mode under low temporal frequency was more sensitive in detecting binocular imbalance. The status of binocular balance in normal subjects was not the same when stimulated by the augmented virtual reality platform as many showed varying degrees of binocular imbalance. The results from our clinical study demonstrate that integrated binocular stimulation with different spatial and temporal frequencies enables a more sensitive detection of binocular imbalance making it a powerful new tool for the diagnosis and analysis of clinical binocular abnormalities. In addition since more than half of the normal subjects without eye diseases who has corrected vision of 0.8 or more exhibited binocular imbalance in our study we believe that this brief binocular imbalance is likely a transient physiological phenomenon which is not pathological to visual acuity and function and should only be seen as pathological when binocular imbalance is prolonged causing functional deficits such as reading impairment. Assessment of Binocular Imbalance with an Augmented Virtual Reality Platform in a Normal Population.