Endocrinologists like other physicians are information managers. They manage both disease-specific and patient-specific information and must integrate both types of information to provide the best possible care for their patients. New technologies offer abundant new approaches to medical information management tasks. Many will focus on computer hardware and software applications; others will seek solutions from video telecommunications the marriage of computer and consumer electronics and other evolving technologies popularly referred to as multimedia and virtual reality. Few innovations in history have had the potential to so profoundly change our lives as the Internet. The incredible growth of the Internet to a vast system of interconnected networks serving more than 75 million users in the United States alone largely has been driven by the growth of newsgroups and e-mail providing a means of communication among Internet users and particularly the World Wide Web WWW. Information on web pages can be "linked" so that users can click on a link and navigate to other information on the same page on other pages of the same document on other files on the same computer or on other computers linked to the Internet anywhere in the world. Moreover the navigation requires no knowledge of arcane difficult-to-remember commands. Hypertext links have the great utility of allowing users to navigate through information according to their own interests and information needs as opposed to those of an author. The WWW also allows authors to link to other sources of information rather than having to recreate it themselves. Increasingly easy access to the WWW has dramatically reduced the barriers to publication of information since it is much easier and much less expensive to place information on the WWW than it is to publish and distribute it in hard copy form. This ease of publication has led to an incredible proliferation of information on the WWW. Much WWW information is of value to health professionals including endocrinologists. This chapter reviews a variety of potential uses of the Internet by endocrinologists in their clinical research and educator roles and provides a number of examples of each. Approaches to finding useful information on the Internet are addressed. Finally we include some speculation about the role of the Internet in the future practice of endocrinology. Internet use by endocrinologists.