"Thyroid ultrasonography is a widely used clinical technique for nodule diagnosis in thyroid regions. However it remains difficult to detect and recognize the nodules due to low contrast high noise and diverse appearance of nodules. In todays clinical practice senior doctors could pinpoint nodules by analyzing global context features local geometry structure and intensity changes which would require rich clinical experience accumulated from hundreds and thousands of nodule case studies. To alleviate doctors tremendous labor in the diagnosis procedure we advocate a machine learning approach to the detection and recognition tasks in this paper. In particular we develop a multitask cascade convolution neural network MC-CNN framework to exploit the context information of thyroid nodules. It may be noted that our framework is built upon a large number of clinically confirmed thyroid ultrasound images with accurate and detailed ground truth labels. Other key advantages of our framework result from a multitask cascade architecture two stages of carefully designed deep convolution networks in order to detect and recognize thyroid nodules in a pyramidal fashion and capturing various intrinsic features in a global-to-local way. Within our framework the potential regions of interest after initial detection are further fed to the spatial pyramid augmented CNNs to embed multiscale discriminative information for fine-grained thyroid recognition. Experimental results on 4309 clinical ultrasound images have indicated that our MC-CNN is accurate and effective for both thyroid nodules detection and recognition. For the correct diagnosis rate of malignant and benign thyroid nodules its mean Average Precision mAP performance can achieve up to Formula: see text accuracy which outperforms the common CNNs by Formula: see text on average. In addition we conduct rigorous user studies to confirm that our MC-CNN outperforms experienced doctors yet only consuming roughly Formula: see text  1/48 of doctors examination time on average. Therefore the accuracy and efficiency of our new method exhibit its great potential in clinical applications." Multitask Cascade Convolution Neural Networks for Automatic Thyroid Nodule Detection and Recognition.