Alpine regions are under increased attention worldwide for their critical role in early biogeochemical cycles their high sensitivity to environmental change and as repositories of natural resources of high quality. Their riparian ecosystems at the interface between aquatic and terrestrial environments play important geochemical functions in the watershed and are biodiversity hotspots despite a harsh climate and topographic setting. With climate change rapidly affecting the alpine biome we still lack a comprehensive understanding of the extent of interactions between riparian surface lake and catchment environments. A total of 189 glacial - origin lakes were surveyed in the Central Pyrenees to test how key elements of the lake and terrestrial environments interact at different scales to shape riparian plant composition. Secondly we evaluated how underlying ecotope features drive the formation of natural communities potentially sensitive to environmental change and assessed their habitat distribution. At the macroscale vegetation composition responded to pan-climatic gradients altitude and latitude which captured in a narrow geographic area the transition between large European climatic zones. Hydrodynamics was the main catchment-scale factor connecting riparian vegetation with major water fluxes followed by topography and geomorphology. Lake sediment Mg and Pb and water Mn and Fe contents reflected local influences from mafic bedrock and soil water saturation. Community analysis identified four keystone ecosystems: i damp ecotone ii snow bed-silicate bedrock iii wet heath and iv calcareous substrate. These communities and their connections with ecotope elements could be at risk from a number of environmental change factors including warmer seasons snow line and lowland species advancement increased nutrient/metal input and water level fluctuations. The results imply important natural terrestrial-aquatic linkages in the riparian environment at a wide range of scales which could help better address further biomic impacts of environmental change. Riparian vegetation in the alpine connectome: Terrestrial-aquatic and terrestrial-terrestrial interactions.