Colorectal cancer CRC is a leading cause of cancer deaths worldwide. Although polypectomy at early stage reduces CRC incidence 90% of the polyps are small and diminutive where removal of them poses risks to patients that may outweigh the benefits. Correctly detecting and predicting polyp type during colonoscopy allows endoscopists to resect and discard the tissue without submitting it for histology saving time and costs. Nevertheless human visual observation of early stage polyps varies. Therefore this paper aims at developing a fully automatic algorithm to detect and classify hyperplastic and adenomatous colorectal polyps. Adenomatous polyps should be removed whereas distal diminutive hyperplastic polyps are considered clinically insignificant and may be left in situ . A novel transfer learning application is proposed utilizing features learned from big nonmedical datasets with 1.4-2.5 million images using deep convolutional neural network. The endoscopic images we collected for experiment were taken under random lighting conditions zooming and optical magnification including 1104 endoscopic nonpolyp images taken under both white-light and narrowband imaging NBI endoscopy and 826 NBI endoscopic polyp images of which 263 images were hyperplasia and 563 were adenoma as confirmed by histology. The proposed method identified polyp images from nonpolyp images in the beginning followed by predicting the polyp histology. When compared with visual inspection by endoscopists the results of this study show that the proposed method has similar precision 87.3% versus 86.4% but a higher recall rate 87.6% versus 77.0% and a higher accuracy 85.9% versus 74.3%. In conclusion automatic algorithms can assist endoscopists in identifying polyps that are adenomatous but have been incorrectly judged as hyperplasia and therefore enable timely resection of these polyps at an early stage before they develop into invasive cancer. Automatic Detection and Classification of Colorectal Polyps by Transferring Low-Level CNN Features From Nonmedical Domain.