The invasiveness of intracortical interfaces currently used today is responsible for the formation of an intense immunoresponse and inflammatory reaction from neural cells and tissues. This leads to a high concentration of reactive glial cells around the implant site creating a physical barrier between the neurons and the recording channels. Such a rejection of foreign analog interfaces causes neural signals to fade from recordings which become flooded by background noise after a few weeks. Despite their invasiveness those devices are required to track single neuron activity and decode fine sensory or motor commands. In particular such quantitative and long-lasting recordings of individual neurons are crucial during a long time period several months to restore essential functions of the cortex disrupted after injuries stroke or neurodegenerative diseases. To overcome this limitation graphene and related materials have attracted numerous interests as they gather in the same material many suitable properties for interfacing living matter such as an exceptionally high neural affinity diffusion barrier and high physical robustness. In this work the neural affinity of a graphene monolayer with numerous materials commonly used in neuroprostheses is compared and its impact on the performance and durability of intracortical probes is investigated. For that purpose an innovative coating method to wrap 3D intracortical probes with a continuous monolayer graphene is developed. Experimental evidence demonstrate the positive impact of graphene on the bioacceptance of conventional intracortical probes in terms of detection efficiency and tissues responses allowing real-time samplings of motor neuron activity during 5 weeks. Since continuous graphene coatings can easily be implemented on a wide range of 3D surfaces this study further motivates the use of graphene and related materials as it could significantly contribute to reduce the current rejection of neural probes currently used in many research areas from fundamental neurosciences to medicine and neuroprostheses. Monolayer Graphene Coating of Intracortical Probes for Long-Lasting Neural Activity Monitoring.