Anxiety patients overgeneralize fear responses possibly because they cannot distinguish between cues never been associated with a threat i.e. safe and threat-associated cues. However as contexts and not cues are discussed as the relevant triggers for prolonged anxiety responses characterizing many anxiety disorders we speculated that it is rather overgeneralization of contextual anxiety which constitutes a risk factor for anxiety disorders. To this end we investigated generalization of conditioned contextual anxiety and explored modulatory effects of anxiety sensitivity a risk factor for anxiety disorders. Fifty-five participants underwent context conditioning in a virtual reality paradigm. On Day 1 acquisition participants received unpredictable mildly painful electric stimuli unconditioned stimulus US in one virtual office anxiety context CTX+ but never in a second office safety context CTX-. Successful acquisition of conditioned anxiety was indicated by aversive ratings and defensive physiological responses i.e. SCR to CTX+ vs CTX-. On Day 2 generalization participants re-visited both the anxiety and the safety contexts plus three generalization contexts G-CTX which were gradually dissimilar to CTX+ from 75 to 25%. Generalization of conditioned anxiety was evident for ratings but less clear for physiological responses. The observed dissociation between generalization of verbal and physiological responses suggests that these responses depend on two distinct context representations likely elemental and contextual representations. Importantly anxiety sensitivity was positively correlated with the generalization of reported contextual anxiety. Thus this study demonstrates generalization gradients for conditioned contextual anxiety and that anxiety sensitivity facilitates such generalization processes suggesting the importance of generalization of contextual anxiety for the development of anxiety disorders. Generalization of Conditioned Contextual Anxiety and the Modulatory Effects of Anxiety Sensitivity.