Social cognitive skills training interventions for psychotic disorders have shown improvement in social cognitive performance tasks but little was known about brain-based biomarkers linked to treatment effects. In this pilot study we examined whether social cognitive skills training could modulate extrinsic and intrinsic functional connectivity in psychosis using functional magnetic resonance imaging fMRI. Twenty-six chronic outpatients with psychotic disorders were recruited from either a Social Cognitive Skills Training SCST or an activity- and time-matched control intervention. At baseline and the end of intervention 12 weeks participants completed two social cognitive tasks: a Facial Affect Matching task and a Mental State Attribution Task as well as resting-state fMRI rs-fMRI. Extrinsic functional connectivity was assessed using psychophysiological interaction PPI with amygdala and temporo-parietal junction as a seed region for the Facial Affect Matching Task and the Mental State Attribution task respectively. Intrinsic functional connectivity was assessed with independent component analysis on rs-fMRI with a focus on the default mode network DMN. During the Facial Affect Matching task we observed stronger PPI connectivity in the SCST group after intervention compared to baseline but no treatment-related change in the Control group. Neither group showed treatment-related changes in PPI connectivity during the Mental State Attribution task. During rs-fMRI we found treatment-related changes in the DMN in the SCST group but not in Control group. This study found that social cognitive skills training modulated both extrinsic and intrinsic functional connectivity in individuals with psychotic disorders after a 12-week intervention. These findings suggest treatment-related changes in functional connectivity as a potential brain-based biomarker of social cognitive skills training. fMRI biomarkers of social cognitive skills training in psychosis: Extrinsic and intrinsic functional connectivity.