Microglial cells form a context-dependent network of brain immunoeffector cells. Despite their indispensable roles unresolved questions exist around biomarker discovery relevant to their cellular localization self-renewing potential and brain developmental dynamics. To resolve the existent gap in the annotation of candidate biomarkers we conducted a meta-analysis of brain cells using available high-throughput data sets for deciphering microglia-specific expression profiles. We have identified 3290 significant genes specific to microglia and further selected the top 20 dysregulated genes on the basis of p-value and log2FC. To this list we added 7 known microglia-specific markers making the candidate list comprising 27 genes for further downstream analyses. Next we established a connectome of these potential markers with their putative protein partners which demonstrated strong associations of upregulated genes like Dedicator of cytokinesis 2 DOCK2 with early/mature microglial markers such as Sphingosine kinase 1 SPHK1 CD68 and CD45. To elucidate their respective brain anatomical location we deconvoluted the BrainSpan Atlas expression data. This analysis showed high expression of the majority of candidate genes in microglia-dense regions Amygdala Hippocampus Striatum in the postnatal brain. Furthermore to decipher their localized expression across brain ages we constructed a developmental dynamics map DDM comprising extensive gene expression profiles throughout prenatal to postnatal stages which resulted in the discovery of novel microglia-specific gene signatures. One of the interesting readout from DDM is that all the microglia-dense regions exhibit dynamic regulation of few genes at 37 post conception week pcw the transition period between pre- and postnatal stages. To validate these findings and correlate them as potential biomarkers we analyzed the expression of corresponding proteins in hESC-derived human microglia precursors. The cultured microglial precursors showed expression of Pentraxin 3 PTX3 and SPHK1 as well as several known markers like CD68 Allograft inflammatory factor 1 AIF1/IBA1. In summary this study has furnished critical insights into microglia dynamics across human brain ages and cataloged potential transcriptomic fingerprints that can be further exploited for designing novel neurotherapeutics. Deconvolution of Human Brain Cell Type Transcriptomes Unraveled Microglia-Specific Potential Biomarkers.