The identification of phenotypic associations in high-dimensional brain connectivity data represents the next frontier in the neuroimaging connectomics era. Exploration of brain-phenotype relationships remains limited by statistical approaches that are computationally intensive depend on a priori hypotheses or require stringent correction for multiple comparisons. Here we propose a computationally efficient data-driven technique for connectome-wide association studies CWAS that provides a comprehensive voxel-wise survey of brain-behavior relationships across the connectome; the approach identifies voxels whose whole-brain connectivity patterns vary significantly with a phenotypic variable. Using resting state fMRI data we demonstrate the utility of our analytic framework by identifying significant connectivity-phenotype relationships for full-scale IQ and assessing their overlap with existent neuroimaging findings as synthesized by openly available automated meta-analysis www.neurosynth.org. The results appeared to be robust to the removal of nuisance covariates i.e. mean connectivity global signal and motion and varying brain resolution i.e. voxelwise results are highly similar to results using 800 parcellations. We show that CWAS findings can be used to guide subsequent seed-based correlation analyses. Finally we demonstrate the applicability of the approach by examining CWAS for three additional datasets each encompassing a distinct phenotypic variable: neurotypical development Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder diagnostic status and L-DOPA pharmacological manipulation. For each phenotype our approach to CWAS identified distinct connectome-wide association profiles not previously attainable in a single study utilizing traditional univariate approaches. As a computationally efficient extensible and scalable method our CWAS framework can accelerate the discovery of brain-behavior relationships in the connectome. A multivariate distance-based analytic framework for connectome-wide association studies.