Neuromuscular control of voluntary movement may be simplified using muscle synergies similar to those found using non-negative matrix factorization. We recently identified synergies in electromyography EMG recordings associated with both voluntary movement and movement evoked by high-frequency long-duration intracortical microstimulation applied to the forelimb representation of the primary motor cortex M1. The goal of this study was to use stimulus-triggered averaging StTA of EMG activity to investigate the synergy profiles and weighting coefficients associated with poststimulus facilitation as synergies may be hard-wired into elemental cortical output modules and revealed by StTA. We applied StTA at low LOW 15 A and high intensities HIGH 110 A to 247 cortical locations of the M1 forelimb region in two male rhesus macaques while recording the EMG of 24 forelimb muscles. Our results show that 10-11 synergies accounted for 90% of the variation in poststimulus EMG facilitation peaks from the LOW-intensity StTA dataset while only 4-5 synergies were needed for the HIGH-intensity dataset. Synergies were similar across monkeys and current intensities. Most synergy profiles strongly activated only one or two muscles; all joints were represented and most but not all joint directions of motion were represented. Cortical maps of the synergy weighting coefficients suggest only a weak organization. StTA of M1 resulted in highly diverse muscle activations suggestive of the limiting condition of requiring a synergy for each muscle to account for the patterns observed.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT Coordination of muscle activity and the neural origin of potential muscle synergies remains a fundamental question of neuroscience. We previously demonstrated that high-frequency long-duration intracortical microstimulation-evoked synergies were unrelated to voluntary movement synergies and were not clearly organized in the cortex. Here we present stimulus-triggered averaging facilitation-related muscle synergies suggesting that when fundamental cortical output modules are activated synergies approach the limit of single-muscle control. Thus we conclude that if the CNS controls movement via linear synergies those synergies are unlikely to be called from M1. This information is critical for understanding neural control of movement and the development of brain-machine interfaces. Muscle Synergies Obtained from Comprehensive Mapping of the Cortical Forelimb Representation Using Stimulus Triggered Averaging of EMG Activity.