Deep learning has achieved remarkable success in the optical coherence tomography OCT image classification task with substantial labelled B-scan images available. However obtaining such fine-grained expert annotations is usually quite difficult and expensive. How to leverage the volume-level labels to develop a robust classifier is very appealing. In this paper we propose a weakly deep supervised learning framework with uncertainty estimation to address the macula-related disease classification problem from OCT images with only volume-level label being available. First a convolutional neural network CNN based instance-level classifier is iteratively refined by using the proposed uncertainty-driven deep multiple instance learning scheme. To our best knowledge we are the first to incorporate the uncertainty evaluation mechanism into multiple instance learning MIL for training a robust instance classifier. The classifier is able to detect suspicious abnormal instances and abstract the corresponding deep embedding with high representation capability simultaneously. Second a recurrent neural network RNN takes instance features from the same bag as input and generates the final bag-level prediction by considering the individually local instance information and globally aggregated bag-level representation. For more comprehensive validation we built two large diabetic macular edema DME OCT datasets from different devices and imaging protocols to evaluate the efficacy of our method} which are composed of 30151 B-scans in 1396 volumes from 274 patients Heidelberg-DME dataset and 38976 B-scans in 3248 volumes from 490 patients Triton-DME dataset respectively. We compare the proposed method with the state-of-the-art approaches and experimentally demonstrate that our method is superior to alternative methods achieving volume-level accuracy F1-score and area under receiver operating characteristic curve AUC of 95.1% 93.9% and 99.0% on Heidelberg-DME and those of 95.1% 93.5% and 98.6% on Triton-DME respectively. Furthermore the proposed method also yields competitive results on another public age-related macular degeneration OCT dataset indicating the high potential as an effective screening tool in the clinical practice. UD-MIL: Uncertainty-driven Deep Multiple Instance Learning for OCT Image Classification.