The circuit organization within the mammalian brainstem respiratory network specifically within and between the pre-Btzinger pre-BtC and Btzinger BtC complexes and the roles of these circuits in respiratory pattern generation are continuously debated. We address these issues with a combination of optogenetic experiments and modeling studies. We used transgenic mice expressing channelrhodopsin-2 under the VGAT-promoter to investigate perturbations of respiratory circuit activity by site-specific photostimulation of inhibitory neurons within the pre-BtC or BtC. The stimulation effects were dependent on the intensity and phase of the photostimulation. Specifically: 1 Low intensity  1.0 mW pulses delivered to the pre-BtC during inspiration did not terminate activity whereas stronger stimulations  2.0 mW terminated inspiration. 2 When the pre-BtC stimulation ended in or was applied during expiration rebound activation of inspiration occurred after a fixed latency. 3 Relatively weak sustained stimulation 20 Hz 0.5-2.0 mW of pre-BtC inhibitory neurons increased respiratory frequency while a further increase of stimulus intensity > 3.0 mW reduced frequency and finally  5.0 mW terminated respiratory oscillations. 4 Single pulses 0.2-5.0 s applied to the BtC inhibited rhythmic activity for the duration of the stimulation. 5 Sustained stimulation 20 Hz 0.5-3.0 mW of the BtC reduced respiratory frequency and finally led to apnea. We have revised our computational model of pre-BtC and BtC microcircuits by incorporating an additional population of post-inspiratory inhibitory neurons in the pre-BtC that interacts with other neurons in the network. This model was able to reproduce the above experimental findings as well as previously published results of optogenetic activation of pre-BtC or BtC neurons obtained by other laboratories. The proposed organization of pre-BtC and BtC circuits leads to testable predictions about their specific roles in respiratory pattern generation and provides important insights into key circuit interactions operating within brainstem respiratory networks. Organization of the core respiratory network: Insights from optogenetic and modeling studies.