"Visually induced illusion of self-motion vection has been used as a tool to address neural correlates of visual-vestibular interaction. The extent to which vestibular cortical areas are deactivated during vection varies from one study to another. The main question in this study is whether such deactivation depends on the visual-vestibular conflict induced by visual motion. A visual motion about the line of sight roll motion induces a visual-canal conflict in upright and supine observers. An additional visual-otolith conflict arises in the upright position only with the graviceptive inputs indicating that the head is stationary. A 96-channel electroencephalogram EEG was recorded in 21 participants exposed to roll motion in seated and supine positions. Meanwhile perceptual state of self-motion was recorded. Results showed a transient decrease in the cortical sensorimotor networks alpha activity at the onset of vection whatever the participants position and therefore the visual-vestibular conflict. During vection an increase in alpha activity over parieto-occipital areas was observed in the upright condition that is in a condition of visual-otolith conflict. The modulation of alpha activity may be predictive of the illusion of self-motion but also may reflect the level of inhibition in the sensorimotor networks needed to reduce potential interference from vestibular conflicting inputs.NEW & NOTEWORTHY For the first time we explored the neural correlates of different visuo-vestibular conflicts induced by visual motion using EEG. Our study highlighted a neuronal signature for illusory self-motion vection in the sensorimotor networks. Strong alpha activity may predict successful vection but also reflects the level of inhibition of sensorimotor networks needed to reduce potential interfering vestibular inputs. These findings would be of prime importance for simulator and virtual reality systems that induce vection." Modulation of alpha waves in sensorimotor cortical networks during self-motion perception evoked by different visual-vestibular conflicts.