Fluoroscopy is the most common tool for the intraoperative control of long-bone fracture reduction. Limitations of this technology include high radiation exposure for the patient and the surgical team limited visual field distorted images and cumbersome verification of image updating. Fluoroscopy-based navigation systems partially address these limitations by allowing fluoroscopic images to be used for real-time surgical localization and instrument tracking. Existing fluoroscopy-based navigation systems are still limited as far as the virtual representation of true surgical reality is concerned. This article for the first time presents a reality-enhanced virtual fluoroscopy with radiation-free updates of in situ surgical fluoroscopic images to control metaphyseal fracture reduction. A virtual fluoroscopy is created using the projection properties of the fluoroscope; it allows the display of detailed three-dimensional 3D geometric models of surgical tools and implants superimposed on the X-ray images. Starting from multiple registered fluoroscopy images a virtual 3D cylinder model for each principal bone fragment is constructed. This spatial cylinder model not only supplies a 3D image of the fracture but also allows effective fragment projection recovery from the fluoroscopic images and enables radiation-free updates of in situ surgical fluoroscopic images by non-linear interpolation and warping algorithms. Initial clinical experience was gained during four tibia fracture fixations that were treated by LISS Less Invasive Stabilization System osteosynthesis. In the cases operated on after primary image acquisition the image intensifier was replaced by the virtual reality system. In all cases the procedure including fracture reduction and LISS osteosynthesis was performed entirely in virtual reality. A significant disadvantage was the unfamiliar operation of this prototype software and the need for an additional operator for the navigation system. Computer-assisted LISS plate osteosynthesis of proximal tibia fractures: feasibility study and first clinical results.