Remarkable advances have recently been made in the development of Brain-Machine Interface BMI technologies for restoring or enhancing motor function. However the application of these technologies may be limited to patients in static conditions as these developments have been largely based on studies of animals e.g. non-human primates in constrained movement conditions. The ultimate goal of BMI technology is to enable individuals to move their bodies naturally or control external devices without physical constraints. Here we demonstrate accurate decoding of muscle activity from electrocorticogram ECoG signals in unrestrained freely behaving monkeys. We recorded ECoG signals from the sensorimotor cortex as well as electromyogram signals from multiple muscles in the upper arm while monkeys performed two types of movements with no physical restraints as follows: forced forelimb movement lever-pull task and natural whole-body movement free movement within the cage. As in previous reports using restrained monkeys we confirmed that muscle activity during forced forelimb movement was accurately predicted from simultaneously recorded ECoG data. More importantly we demonstrated that accurate prediction of muscle activity from ECoG data was possible in monkeys performing natural whole-body movement. We found that high-gamma activity in the primary motor cortex primarily contributed to the prediction of muscle activity during natural whole-body movement as well as forced forelimb movement. In contrast the contribution of high-gamma activity in the premotor and primary somatosensory cortices was significantly larger during natural whole-body movement. Thus activity in a larger area of the sensorimotor cortex was needed to predict muscle activity during natural whole-body movement. Furthermore decoding models obtained from forced forelimb movement could not be generalized to natural whole-body movement which suggests that decoders should be built individually and according to different behavior types. These results contribute to the future application of BMI systems in unrestrained individuals. Decoding of muscle activity from the sensorimotor cortex in freely behaving monkeys.