The continuous addition of new dentate granule cells DGCs which is regulated exquisitely by brain activity renders the hippocampus plastic. However how neural circuits encode experiences to affect the addition of adult-born neurons remains unknown. Here we used endoscopic Ca2+ imaging to track the real-time activity of individual DGCs in freely behaving mice. For the first time we found that active DGCs responded to a novel experience by increasing their Ca2+ event frequency preferentially. This elevated activity which we found to be associated with object exploration returned to baseline by 1 h in the same environment but could be dishabituated via introduction to a novel environment. To transition seamlessly between environments we next established a freely controllable virtual reality system for unrestrained mice. We again observed increased firing of active neurons in a virtual enriched environment. Interestingly multiple novel virtual experiences increased the number of newborn neurons accumulatively compared with a single experience. Finally optogenetic silencing of existing DGCs during novel environmental exploration perturbed experience-induced neuronal addition. Our study shows that the adult brain conveys novel enriched experiences to increase the addition of adult-born hippocampal neurons by increasing the firing of active DGCs.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT Adult brains are constantly reshaping themselves from synapses to circuits as we encounter novel experiences from moment to moment. Importantly this reshaping includes the addition of newborn hippocampal neurons. However it remains largely unknown how our circuits encode experience-induced brain activity to govern the addition of new hippocampal neurons. By coupling in vivo Ca2+ imaging of dentate granule neurons with a novel unrestrained virtual reality system for rodents we discovered that a new experience increased firing of active dentate granule neurons rapidly and robustly. Exploration in multiple novel virtual environments compared with a single environment promoted dentate activation and enhanced the addition of new hippocampal neurons accumulatively. Finally silencing this activation optogenetically during novel experiences perturbed experience-induced neuronal addition. Active Dentate Granule Cells Encode Experience to Promote the Addition of Adult-Born Hippocampal Neurons.