"Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder ADHD is a childhood syndrome characterized by short attention span impulsiveness and hyperactivity which often leads to learning disabilities and various behavioral problems. The prevalence rates for ADHD varied from a low of 2.0% to a high of 6.3% in 1992 statistics and it may be higher now. Using Virtual Environments and Neurofeedback we have developed an Attention Enhancement System for treating ADHD. And we made a clinical test. Classroom-based virtual environments are constructed for intimacy and intensive attention enhancement. In this basic virtual environment subjects performed some training sessions. There are two kinds of training sessions. One is Virtual Reality Cognitive Training VRCT and the other is Virtual Reality Neurofeedback Training VRNT. In VRNT we made a change in the virtual environment by Neurofeedback. Namely if the Beta ratio is greater than the specified threshold level the change as positive reinforce is created in the virtual environment. 50 subjects aged 14 to 18 who had committed crimes and had been isolated in a reformatory took part in this study. They were randomly assigned to one of five 10-subject groups: a control Group two placebo groups and two experimental groups. The experimental groups and the placebo groups underwent 10 sessions over two weeks. The control group underwent no training session during the same period of time. While the experimental groups used HMD and Head Tracker in each session the placebo groups used only a computer monitor. Consequently only the experimental Groups could look around the virtual classroom. Besides that Placebo Group 1 and Experimental Group 1 performed the same taskNeurofeedback Training and Placebo Group 2 and Experimental Group 2 also performed the same taskCognitive Training. All subjects Continuous Performance TaskCPT before and after all training sessions. In the number of correct answers omission errors and signal detection index d the subjects scores from CPT showed significant improvement p<0.01 after all of the training sessions while control group indicated no significant change. And experimental groups showed significant difference p<0.01 with placebo groups. Lastly the Virtual Reality Neurofeedback training group and the Virtual Reality Cognitive training group indicated not significant difference. Our System is supposed to enhance subjects attention and lead their behavioral improvement. And also we can conclude that virtual reality training both Neurofeedback training and Cognitive training has an advantage for attention enhancement compared with desk-top training." Clinical test for Attention Enhancement System.