University level of Pathophysiology research and teaching in Croatia had started with the third year of Medical School of Zagreb in academic year 1919./20. Ever since despite historical changes of the main university stake holder the state of Croatia Department of Pathophysiology development progressed and has made visible academic achievements with a broader effect in medical community. The first 95 years of academic tradition and major achievements are shortly described in this paper. Professor Miroslav Mikulii envisioned Pathophysiology in close relations with Pharmacology and made the pioneering steps of establishing the "double" department at alata. His group was academically very pro-active with strong international scientific participation and recruitment of professionals. The group published the first voluminous textbook of Pharmacology and Pathophysiology in Croatian. In fifties professor Pavao Sokoli established clinical pathophysiology within the Hospital Centre at Rebro. Out of "double" department two new departments were founded the Pathophysiology one was completed with the clinical ward. That institutional move from alata hill to the Rebro hill was a necessary gigantic step and a prerequisite for the proper further development. It was in accordance with the concept of the Mikulii\s program of Pathophysiology from 1917. Pavao Sokoli has been remembered for his visions deep insights into etiopathogenesis ability to transfer knowledge and friendly relations to students. Sharp intellectual power emanating charisma academic erudition and unique clinical competencies made the legendary image of the "Teacher" - as students used to refer to him with admiration. He was second to no one when complex patient issues were to be resolved. Clinical Hospital Centre Zagreb and his Department at Rebro have become a referral point to whom to go to despair. Students recognized in their Teacher the landmark of Croatian medicine which made a lasting legacy on generations to come. Professor Stjepan Gamulin made molecular medicine the working reality at Rebro. Both in clinical research and in health system as diagnostic service and tool for all centers in Croatia molecular measurement in tissue samples came into usage in daily physicians reasoning and therapy prescriptions. Macromolecular aspects of disease have come of age and became clinimetric signs of patients\ condition. Professor Gamulin with his group and associated authors wrote the textbook of pathophysiology which in upcoming 30 years had 7 editions has become the bestseller in medicine. The textbook was translated and published in English and Albanian. In the most recent book professor Gamulin turned the focus of medical community to clinical epidemiology and a need for retrospective insights into medical efficiency. Medical performance can be improved with the improvement of understanding of underlying etiopathogenetic relations as the foundation of therapy-is the main message. Following the academic legacy and spirit of three charismatic authorities we established two methods of teaching/learning in medicine. The two methods opened up a new avenue so important for the era of postgenomic plethora of information and demands of precision/personalized medicine. Methodology has been introduced timely. It is student-friendly and usable for advanced types of education. Problem based algorhytmic matrices stimulate analysis and resynthesis of etiopathogenetic pathways. Graphic presentation of the solution integrates horizontal vertical and longitudinal aspects of the problem. The companion textbook in the form of problem solver has been published in 3 editions and contains 128 study solved cases. It was published in English as well. Out of algorhythmic analysis the etiopathogenetic clusters EPCs are composed of etiopathogenetic pathway analysis. EPCs are natural units of disease development the crossing points of processes. They are integrative hubs which tend to make networks of EPCs. Four volume textbook has been published which elaborates 91 EPCs with 1165 study cases. Unique approach in the first 95 years was defined as Zagreb School of Pathophysiology. It made visible effect outside academia and recognizable image at the international level in scientific educational and practical aspects of activities. 95th Anniversary of Pathophysiology in Croatia.