Our research is implementing high quality next generation services for the Prediction Early Diagnosis Monitoring and Support of patients with Cognitive Impairment Subjective Cognitive Impairment -SCI- Mild Cognitive Impairment -MCI- Mild Dementia and Education and Training for all stakeholders. Prediction Early Diagnosis and Monitoring: The first idea was to Research and Develop a novel System using motion detection devices depth cameras and intelligent objects of everyday use ranging from cooking implements such as kitchen to furniture e.g. sofa bed etc. which are appropriately adapted in order to capture changes of subject\s Activities of Daily Living -ADL- and behavioural patterns including mobility nutrition exercising and medication schedule. We also demonstrated the potential of a virtual supermarket VSM cognitive training game as a screening tool for patients with MCI in a sample of older adults. We have indicated that this VSM application displayed a correct classification rate CCR of 87.30% achieving a level of diagnostic accuracy similar to standardized neuropsychological tests which are the gold standard for MCI screening http://www.en-noisis.gr/ Support of patients: Cognitive tasks and cognitive exercises for patients suffering from Alzheimer\s Disease AD through web-based applications. These exercises have been developed in such a way in order to exploit rich interactive multimedia interfaces including music based on human computer interaction principles. To this direction we are implementing a web based portal with supportive services such as a on-line monitoring of patient\s progress by health care professionals b statistical representation of patients\ progress. Multimedia enriched cognitive exercises in virtual reality form i.e. 3D Serious Games use suitable modalities for such activities through the creation probable of new brain cells and by assisting the brain to find out alternative methods to execute functions which are controlled by damaged brain regions. Another program the "robot-programming-as-cognitive-training" approach aims to explore the impact that the activity of programming a friendly robot might have on AD and MCI patients\ condition. http://aspad.csd.auth.gr. Another study aimed at investigating the benefits of combined physical and cognitive training on global cognition while assessing the effect of training dosage and exploring the role of several potential effect modifiers. The results indicate that combined physical and cognitive training improves global cognition in a dose-responsive manner but these benefits may be less pronounced in older adults with mild dementia. The long-lasting impact of combined training on the incidence and trajectory of cognitive disorders in relation to its severity should be assessed in future long-term trials. www.longlastingmemories.eu. Finally Symbiosis is a revolutionary system aiming at providing integrated solutions to a series of problems related with MCI and AD. It is the first integrated AD support system that takes into account patient\s response in an adaptive way that fulfills each patient\s special needs and provides to caregivers and doctors considerable facilitations unlocking the potential of innovative supporting role. www.youtube.com/watch?v=BDkLz-T-jYE. Education and training for all stakeholders i.e. health professionals and informal and formal caregivers through distance education platforms and e-collaboration services. To augment this effort the research team integrates biofeedback modules for stress measurement in teleconferences in order to support the emotional awareness of the participants. The depression anxiety and burden of caregivers were reduced significantly in the same way as in a face to face intervention. http://aspad.csd.auth.gr. In conclusion ICT can help health professionals and caregivers to support in a better way the patients with cognitive functional and behavioral problems. Our experience with informative and communication technologies ICT in dementia.