Background and Purpose- Selection of patients with acute ischemic stroke for endovascular treatment generally relies on dynamic susceptibility contrast magnetic resonance imaging or computed tomography perfusion. Dynamic susceptibility contrast magnetic resonance imaging requires injection of contrast whereas computed tomography perfusion requires high doses of ionizing radiation. The purpose of this work was to develop and evaluate a deep learning DL-based algorithm for assisting the selection of suitable patients with acute ischemic stroke for endovascular treatment based on 3-dimensional pseudo-continuous arterial spin labeling pCASL. Methods- A total of 167 image sets of 3-dimensional pCASL data from 137 patients with acute ischemic stroke scanned on 1.5T and 3.0T Siemens MR systems were included for neural network training. The concurrently acquired dynamic susceptibility contrast magnetic resonance imaging was used to produce labels of hypoperfused brain regions analyzed using commercial software. The DL and 6 machine learning ML algorithms were trained with 10-fold cross-validation. The eligibility for endovascular treatment was determined retrospectively based on the criteria of perfusion/diffusion mismatch in the DEFUSE 3 trial Endovascular Therapy Following Imaging Evaluation for Ischemic Stroke. The trained DL algorithm was further applied on twelve 3-dimensional pCASL data sets acquired on 1.5T and 3T General Electric MR systems without fine-tuning of parameters. Results- The DL algorithm can predict the dynamic susceptibility contrast-defined hypoperfusion region in pCASL with a voxel-wise area under the curve of 0.958 while the 6 ML algorithms ranged from 0.897 to 0.933. For retrospective determination for subject-level endovascular treatment eligibility the DL algorithm achieved an accuracy of 92% with a sensitivity of 0.89 and specificity of 0.95. When applied to the GE pCASL data the DL algorithm achieved a voxel-wise area under the curve of 0.94 and a subject-level accuracy of 92% for endovascular treatment eligibility. Conclusions- pCASL perfusion magnetic resonance imaging in conjunction with the DL algorithm provides a promising approach for assisting decision-making for endovascular treatment in patients with acute ischemic stroke. Deep Learning Detection of Penumbral Tissue on Arterial Spin Labeling in Stroke.