Sensory over-responsivity SOR commonly involves auditory and/or tactile domains and can affect children with or without additional neurodevelopmental challenges. In this study we examined white matter microstructural and connectome correlates of auditory over-responsivity AOR analyzing prospectively collected data from 39 boys aged 8-12 years. In addition to conventional diffusion tensor imaging DTI maps - including fractional anisotropy FA mean diffusivity MD radial diffusivity RD and axial diffusivity AD; we used DTI and high-resolution T1 scans to develop connectome Edge Density ED maps. The tract-based spatial statistics was used for voxel-wise comparison of diffusion and ED maps. Then stepwise penalized logistic regression was applied to identify independent variable s predicting AOR as potential imaging biomarker s for AOR. Finally we compared different combinations of machine learning algorithms i.e. nave Bayes random forest and support vector machine SVM and tract-based DTI/connectome metrics for classification of children with AOR. In direct sensory phenotype assessment 15 out of 39 boys exhibited AOR with or without neurodevelopmental concerns. Voxel-wise analysis demonstrates extensive impairment of white matter microstructural integrity in children with AOR on DTI maps - evidenced by lower FA and higher MD and RD; moreover there was lower connectome ED in anterior-superior corona radiata genu and body of corpus callosum. In stepwise logistic regression the average FA of left superior longitudinal fasciculus SLF was the single independent variable distinguishing children with AOR p = 0.007. Subsequently the left SLF average FA yielded an area under the curve of 0.756 in receiver operating characteristic analysis for prediction of AOR p = 0.008 as a region-of-interest ROI-based imaging biomarker. In comparative study of different combinations of machine-learning models and DTI/ED metrics random forest algorithms using ED had higher accuracy for AOR classification. Our results demonstrate extensive white matter microstructural impairment in children with AOR with specifically lower connectomic ED in anterior-superior tracts and associated commissural pathways. Also average FA of left SLF can be applied as ROI-based imaging biomarker for prediction of SOR. Finally machine-learning models can provide accurate and objective image-based classifiers for identification of children with AOR based on white matter tracts connectome ED. White Matter Connectome Correlates of Auditory Over-Responsivity: Edge Density Imaging and Machine-Learning Classifiers.