"Bystanders in a real worlds social setting have the ability to influence peoples beliefs and behavior. This study examines whether this effect can be recreated in a virtual environment by exposing people to virtual bystanders in a classroom setting. Participants n = 26 first witnessed virtual students answering questions from an English teacher after which they were also asked to answer questions from the teacher as part of a simulated training for spoken English. During the experiment the attitudes of the other virtual students in the classroom was manipulated; they could whisper either positive or negative remarks to each other when a virtual student was talking or when a participant was talking. The results show that the expressed attitude of virtual bystanders towards the participants affected their self-efficacy and their avoidance behavior. Furthermore the experience of witnessing bystanders commenting negatively on the performance of other students raised the participants heart rate when it was their turn to speak. Two-way interaction effects were also found on self-reported anxiety and self-efficacy. After witnessing bystanders positive attitude towards peer students participants self-efficacy when answering questions received a boost when bystanders were also positive towards them and a blow when bystanders reversed their attitude by being negative towards them. Still inconsistency instead of consistency between the bystanders attitudes towards virtual peers and the participants was not found to result in a larger change in the participants beliefs. Finally the results also reveal that virtual flattering or destructive criticizing affected the participants beliefs not only about the virtual bystanders but also about the neutral teacher. Together these findings show that virtual bystanders in a classroom can affect peoples beliefs anxiety and behavior." "Virtual bystanders in a language lesson: examining the effect of social evaluation vicarious experience cognitive consistency and praising on students beliefs self-efficacy and anxiety in a virtual reality environment."