New advances in structural neuroimaging have revealed the intricate and extensive connections within the brain data which have informed a number of ambitious projects such as the mapping of the human connectome. Elucidation of the structural connections of the brain at both the macro and micro levels promises new perspectives on brain structure and function that could translate into improved outcomes in functional neurosurgery. The understanding of neuronal structural connectivity afforded by these data now offers a vista on the brain in both healthy and diseased states that could not be seen with traditional neuroimaging. Concurrent with these developments in structural imaging a complementary modality called magnetoencephalography MEG has been garnering great attention because it too holds promise for being able to shed light on the intricacies of functional brain connectivity. MEG is based upon the elemental principle of physics that an electrical current generates a magnetic field. Hence MEG uses highly sensitive biomagnetometers to measure extracranial magnetic fields produced by intracellular neuronal currents. Put simply then MEG is a measure of neurophysiological activity which captures the magnetic fields generated by synchronized intraneuronal electrical activity. As such MEG recordings offer exquisite resolution in the time and oscillatory domain and as well when co-registered with magnetic resonance imaging MRI offer excellent resolution in the spatial domain. Recent advances in MEG computational and graph theoretical methods have led to studies of connectivity in the time-frequency domain. As such MEG can elucidate a neurophysiological-based functional circuitry that may enhance what is seen with MRI connectivity studies. In particular MEG may offer additional insight not possible by MRI when used to study complex eloquent function where the precise timing and coordination of brain areas is critical. This article will review the traditional use of MEG for functional neurosurgery describe recent advances in MEG connectivity analyses and consider the additional benefits that could be gained with the inclusion of MEG connectivity studies. Since MEG has been most widely applied to the study of epilepsy we will frame this article within the context of epilepsy surgery and functional neurosurgery for epilepsy. From Structure to Circuits: The Contribution of MEG Connectivity Studies to Functional Neurosurgery.