Sex stimulus material and attention condition have previously been related to global advantage GA; faster responses to global targets than to local targets on the one hand and lateralization during global-local processing on the other hand. It is presumed that the lateralization of brain functions is either related to the inhibitory influence of the dominant on the nondominant hemisphere or reduced excitation between hemispheres. However a direct relationship between the GA and lateralization and interhemispheric connectivity has not been previously established. In this study 58 participants 29 men 29 naturally cycling women completed a Navon paradigm modulating attention condition divided vs. focused and stimulus material letters vs. shapes during functional magnetic resonance imaging. The size of the GA effect lateralization indices interhemispheric connectivity and sex hormone levels were assessed. In summary this study suggests that interhemispheric connectivity during global-local processing is affected by sex and material. Furthermore the relationship between interhemispheric connectivity lateralization and behavior was modulated by sex and sex hormones. Results suggest 1 differential roles of interhemispheric connectivity for lateralization in men and women and 2 differential roles of lateralization for behavior in men and women. Importantly the classic assumption that a more negative connectivity leads to stronger lateralization which in turn leads to a stronger GA effect was observed in men whereas the opposite pattern was found in women. The relationship between connectivity and lateralization was mediated through testosterone levels whereas the relationship between lateralization and behavior was mediated through progesterone levels. Results are discussed in light of differential functions of inhibitory and excitatory interhemispheric processes in men and women. Sex Hormones Modulate the Relationship Between Global Advantage Lateralization and Interhemispheric Connectivity in a Navon Paradigm.