Further development of an EEG based communication device for patients with disorders of consciousness DoC could benefit from addressing the following gaps in knowledge-first an evaluation of different types of motor imagery; second an evaluation of passive feet movement as a mean of an initial classifier setup; and third rapid delivery of biased feedback. To that end we investigated whether complex and/or familiar mental imagery passive and attempted feet movement can be reliably detected in patients with DoC using EEG recordings aiming to provide them with a means of communication. Six patients in a minimally conscious state MCS took part in this study. The patients were verbally instructed to perform different mental imagery tasks sport navigation as well as attempted feet movements to induce distinctive event-related desynchronization ERD/S patterns in the EEG. Offline classification accuracies above chance level were reached in all three tasks i.e. attempted feet sport and navigation with motor tasks yielding significant p < 0.05 results more often than navigation sport: 10 out of 18 sessions; attempted feet: 7 out of 14 sessions; navigation: 4 out of 12 sessions. The passive feet movements evaluated in one patient yielded mixed results: whereas time-frequency analysis revealed task-related EEG changes over neurophysiological plausible cortical areas the classification results were not significant enough p < 0.05 to setup an initial classifier for the detection of attempted movements. Concluding the results presented in this study are consistent with the current state of the art in similar studies to which we contributed by comparing different types of mental tasks notably complex motor imagery and attempted feet movements within patients. Furthermore we explored new venues such as an evaluation of passive feet movement as a mean of an initial classifier setup and rapid delivery of biased feedback. Detection of mental imagery and attempted movements in patients with disorders of consciousness using EEG.