Many hospitalized smokers return to smoking after hospital discharge even though continued smoking can compromise treatment effectiveness reduce survival increase risk of disease recurrence and impair quality of life. After leaving a smoke-free hospital patients encounter smoking cues at home such as family members who smoke or emotional triggers such as stress which can elicit powerful urges to smoke and lead to smoking relapse. Enabling smokers to experience such urges in a controlled setting while providing the ability to practice coping skills may be a useful strategy for building quitting self-efficacy. We are developing a virtual reality coping skills VRCS game to help hospitalized smokers practice coping strategies to manage these triggers in preparation for returning home after hospitalization. Our multidisciplinary team developed a prototype VRCS game using Second Life a platform that allowed rapid construction of a virtual reality environment. The prototype contains virtual home spaces e.g. living room kitchen populated with common triggers to smoke and a "toolkit" with scripted actions that enable the avatar to rehearse various coping strategies. Since eliciting and managing urges to smoke is essential to the game\s utility as an intervention we assessed the ability of the prototype virtual environment to engage former smokers in these scenarios. We recruited eight former smokers with a recent history of hospitalization and guided each through a VRCS scenario during which we asked the patient to evaluate the strength of smoking urges and usefulness of coping strategies. Initial data indicate that patients report high urges to smoke mean = 8.8 on a 10 point scale when their avatar confronted virtual triggers such as drinking coffee. Patients rated virtual practice of coping strategies such as drinking water or watching TV as very helpful mean = 8.4 on a 10 point scale in reducing these urges. With further development this VRCS game may have potential to provide low-cost effective behavioral rehearsal to prevent relapse to smoking in hospitalized patients. Development of a Virtual Reality Coping Skills Game to Prevent Post-Hospitalization Smoking Relapse in Tobacco Dependent Cancer Patients.