Depression is the most frequent comorbid psychiatric condition among individuals with traumatic brain injury TBI. Yet little is known about changes in the brain associated with reduced depressive symptoms following rehabilitation for TBI. We identified whether cognitive training alleviates comorbid depressive symptoms in chronic TBI >6\xa0months post-injury as a secondary effect. Further we elucidated neural correlates of alleviated depressive symptoms following cognitive training. A total of seventy-nine individuals with chronic TBI 53 depressed and 26 non-depressed individuals measured using the Beck Depressive Inventory BDI underwent either strategy- or information-based cognitive training in a small group for 8\xa0weeks. We measured psychological functioning scores cortical thickness and resting-state functional connectivity rsFC for these individuals before training immediately post-training and 3\xa0months post-training. After confirming that changes in BDI scores were independent of training group affiliation we identified that the depressive-symptoms group showed reductions in BDI scores over time relative to the non-depressed TBI controls p\xa0<\xa0.01. Within the depressive-symptoms group reduced BDI scores was associated with improvements in scores for post-traumatic stress disorder TBI symptom awareness and functional status p\xa0<\xa0.00625 increases in cortical thickness in four regions within the right prefrontal cortex pvertex\xa0 <\xa0.01 pcluster <.05 and decreases in rsFC with each of these four prefrontal regions pvertex\xa0 <\xa0.01 pcluster\xa0 <\xa0.0125. Overall these findings suggest that cognitive training can reduce depressive symptoms in TBI even when the training does not directly target psychiatric symptoms. Importantly cortical thickness and brain connectivity may offer promising neuroimaging markers of training-induced improvement in mental health status in TBI. Neural correlates of reduced depressive symptoms following cognitive training for chronic traumatic brain injury.