Behaviors from simple to most complex require a two-way interaction with the environment and the contribution of different brain areas depending on the orchestrated activation of neuronal assemblies. In this work we present a new hybrid neuro-robotic architecture based on a neural controller bi-directionally connected to a virtual robot implementing a Braitenberg vehicle aimed at avoiding obstacles. The robot is characterized by proximity sensors and wheels allowing it to navigate into a circular arena with obstacles of different sizes. As neural controller we used hippocampal cultures dissociated from embryonic rats and kept alive over Micro Electrode Arrays MEAs for 3-8\u2009weeks. The developed software architecture guarantees a bi-directional exchange of information between the natural and the artificial part by means of simple linear coding/decoding schemes. We used two different kinds of experimental preparation: "random" and "modular" populations. In the second case the confinement was assured by a polydimethylsiloxane PDMS mask placed over the surface of the MEA device thus defining two populations interconnected via specific microchannels. The main results of our study are: i neuronal cultures can be successfully interfaced to an artificial agent; ii modular networks show a different dynamics with respect to random culture both in terms of spontaneous and evoked electrophysiological patterns; iii the robot performs better if a reinforcement learning paradigm i.e. a tetanic stimulation delivered to the network following each collision is activated regardless of the modularity of the culture; iv the robot controlled by the modular network further enhances its capabilities in avoiding obstacles during the short-term plasticity trial. The developed paradigm offers a new framework for studying in simplified model systems neuro-artificial bi-directional interfaces for the development of new strategies for brain-machine interaction. Modular neuronal assemblies embodied in a closed-loop environment: toward future integration of brains and machines.