The main idea of brain-computer interfaces BCIs is to facilitate the lives of patients having difficulties to move their muscles due to a disorder of their motor nervous systems but healthy cognitive functions. BCIs are usually electroencephalography EEG-based and the success of the BCIs relies on the precision of signal preprocessing detection of distinctive features usage of suitable classifiers and selection of effective channels. In this study a two-stage channel selection and local transformation-based feature extraction are proposed for the classification of motor imagery/movement tasks. In the first stage of the channel selection the channels were combined according to the neurophysiological information about brain functions acquired from the literature then averaged and a single channel was formed. In the second stage selective channels were specified with the common spatial pattern-linear discriminant analysis CSP-LDA-based sequential channel removal. After the channel selection phase the feature extraction was carried out with local transformation-based methods LTBM: local centroid pattern LCP one-dimensional-local gradient pattern 1D-LGP local neighborhood descriptive pattern LNDP and one-dimensional-local ternary pattern 1D-LTP. The distinctions and deficiencies of these methods were compared with other methods in the literature and the classification performances of the k-nearest neighbor k-NN and the support vector machines SVM were evaluated. As a result the proposed methods yielded the highest average classification accuracies as 99.34% 95.95% 98.66% and 99.90% with the LCP 1D-LGP LNDP and 1D-LTP when using k-NN respectively. The two-stage channel selection and 1D-LTP method showed promising results for recognition of motor tasks. The LTBM will contribute to the development of EEG-based BCIs with the advantages of high classification accuracy easy implementation and low computational complexity. Assessment of CSP-based two-stage channel selection approach and local transformation-based feature extraction for classification of motor imagery/movement EEG data.