"This study examined and compared outcomes of deep learning DL in identifying swept-source optical coherence tomography OCT images without myopic macular lesions i.e. no high myopia nHM vs. high myopia HM and OCT images with myopic macular lesions e.g. myopic choroidal neovascularization mCNV and retinoschisis RS. A total of 910 SS-OCT images were included in the study as follows and analyzed by k-fold cross-validation k = 5 using DLs renowned model Visual Geometry Group-16: nHM 146 images; HM 531 images; mCNV 122 images; and RS 111 images n = 910. The binary classification of OCT images with or without myopic macular lesions; the binary classification of HM images and images with myopic macular lesions i.e. mCNV and RS images; and the ternary classification of HM mCNV and RS images were examined. Additionally sensitivity specificity and the area under the curve AUC for the binary classifications as well as the correct answer rate for ternary classification were examined. The classification results of OCT images with or without myopic macular lesions were as follows: AUC 0.970; sensitivity 90.6%; specificity 94.2%. The classification results of HM images and images with myopic macular lesions were as follows: AUC 1.000; sensitivity 100.0%; specificity 100.0%. The correct answer rate in the ternary classification of HM images mCNV images and RS images were as follows: HM images 96.5%; mCNV images 77.9%; and RS 67.6% with mean 88.9%.Using noninvasive easy-to-obtain swept-source OCT images the DL model was able to classify OCT images without myopic macular lesions and OCT images with myopic macular lesions such as mCNV and RS with high accuracy. The study results suggest the possibility of conducting highly accurate screening of ocular diseases using artificial intelligence which may improve the prevention of blindness and reduce workloads for ophthalmologists." Accuracy of a deep convolutional neural network in the detection of myopic macular diseases using swept-source optical coherence tomography.