"Background: Physical inactivity has been identified as the fourth leading cause of death globally. It is now well established that a sedentary lifestyle is a unique risk factor for several diseases such as type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease which account for about 30% of global mortality. Diabetes is a major preventable cause of costly and debilitating renal failure heart disease lower limb amputation and avoidable blindness. In recent years the idea of using interactive computing systems that leverage gamification to promote physical activity has been widely researched. Prior studies have shown that exergames that is those that encourage physical activity can increase enjoyment and intrinsic motivation compared with conventional exercises; as such they can be effective in promoting physical and mental health. There has been some research on immersive virtual reality VR exergames; however to the best of our knowledge it is limited and preliminary. This work aims at filling the gap and investigates the effect of display type DT and viewing perspective VP on players exertion engagement and overall game experience in immersive VR exergames. Objective: This article aims at examining whether DT and VP can affect gameplay performance players exertion game experience cybersickness and electroencephalography EEG engagement index when playing a gesture-based i.e. body motion exergame. Materials and Methods: Study 1 employed a one-way between-subjects design with 24 participants equally distributed in two groups immersive VR and 50-inch TV to perform 12 pre-defined gestures. The main outcome measures were National Aeronautics and Space Administration-Task Load Index NASA-TLX workload for each group as well as 7 Likert scale and EEG engagement index for each gesture. Study 2 included 16 participants in playing a game with the gestures selected from study 1. All participants played 4 versions based on combinations of DT immersive VR and 50-inch TV and VP first-person and third-person to assess exertion %HRmax calories consumption and Borg RPE 6-20 game experience cybersickness and EEG engagement index. Results: Study 1 results showed that DT had no effect on the ratings of the gestures NASA-TLX workload and EEG engagement index. Study 2 results showed that immersive VR not only resulted in a significantly higher exertion %HRmax calories consumption and Borg RPE but also helped achieve better positive game experience in challenge flow sensory and imaginative immersion as well as lower negative affect. We also found that nausea and oculomotor were significantly higher in immersive VR. Conclusion: This pilot study demonstrates that youth who played gesture-based exergame in immersive VR had a higher level of exertion %HRmax calories consumption and Borg RPE although the number of performed gestures were not significantly different. They also felt that immersive VR was much more challenging immersive flow sensory and imaginative immersion and had a lower negative affect than a 50-inch TV; however immersive VR was more likely to make youth have higher cybersickness." Studying the Effect of Display Type and Viewing Perspective on User Experience in Virtual Reality Exergames.