Purpose: To evaluate in children with developmental coordination disorder DCD the effects of Wii-training compared with task-specific matched training TST.Material and methods: A randomized controlled trial RCT was conducted with 32 children having DCD aged 7-10\u2009years. Children were randomly assigned to the Wii or task-specific training. Both interventions consisted of 16 60-min sessions over an 8-week period. The primary outcome measure of movement skill was the Movement Assessment Battery for Children-2 MABC-2 administered by blinded assessors. Measures included total standard scores TSS manual dexterity aiming/catching and balance component scores.Results: From pre- to post-test both groups improved significantly on TSS and balance after intervention. The Wii intervention group also improved on manual dexterity. Neither group improved significantly on aiming/catching.Conclusions: Both the Wii and task-specific training improved overall motor performance and balance. On other MABC-2 component scores treatment effects differed between groups: Task-specific training had more pronounced effects on balance skills while Wii training had slightly stronger treatment effects than task-specific training on manual dexterity. It was concluded that task-specific training affords stronger benefits for general motor skill than Wii-based training. Whether Wii training can promote clinically significant benefits for upper-limb function remains to be seen.Trial Registration: This study is registered in a clinical trials registry platform Protocol: RBR-89YDGJ. Available on the Brazilian Clinical Trials Registry <http://www.ensaiosclinicos.gov.br/>Implications for rehabilitationWii-training and task-specific matched training programs afforded gains in motor performance in children with developmental coordination disorder similarly;The selected Wii tasks were able to improve the motor performance in children with developmental coordination disorder but should not be used as an exclusive strategy for these children;Our findings suggest caution in recommending Wii-based training as a viable alternative to more task-specific matched training for children with developmental coordination disorder. Is Wii-based motor training better than task-specific matched training for children with developmental coordination disorder? A randomized controlled trial.