Dopamine DA plays a crucial role in the control of motor and higher cognitive functions such as learning working memory and decision making. The primary motor cortex M1 which is essential for motor control and the acquisition of motor skills receives dopaminergic inputs in its superficial and deep layers from the midbrain. However the precise action of DA and DA receptor subtypes on the cortical microcircuits of M1 remains poorly understood. The aim of this work was to investigate in mice how DA through the activation of D2-like receptors D2R modulates the cellular and synaptic activity of M1 parvalbumin-expressing interneurons PVINs which are crucial to regulate the spike output of pyramidal neurons PNs. By combining immunofluorescence ex vivo electrophysiology pharmacology and optogenetics approaches we show that D2R activation increases neuronal excitability of PVINs and GABAergic synaptic transmission between PVINs and PNs in layer V of M1. Our data reveal how cortical DA modulates M1 microcircuitry which could be important in the acquisition of motor skills.Significance Statement Primary motor cortex M1 which is a region essential for motor control and the acquisition of motor skills receives dopaminergic inputs from the midbrain. However precise action of dopamine and its receptor subtypes on specific cell types in M1 remained poorly understood. Here we demonstrate in M1 that dopamine D2-like receptors D2R are present in parvalbumin interneurons PVINs and their activation increases the excitability of the PVINs which are crucial to regulate the spike output of pyramidal neurons PNs. Moreover the activation of the D2R facilitates the GABAergic synaptic transmission of those PVINs on layer V PNs. These results highlight how cortical dopamine modulates the functioning of M1 microcircuit which activity is disturbed in hypo- and hyperdopaminergic states. Dopamine D2-like receptors modulate intrinsic properties and synaptic transmission of parvalbumin interneurons in the mouse primary motor cortex.