Our perception of skin wetness is generated readily yet humans have no known receptor hygroreceptor to signal this directly. It is easy to imagine the sensation of water running over our hands or the feel of rain on our skin. The synthetic sensation of wetness is thought to be produced from a combination of specific skin thermal and tactile inputs registered through thermoreceptors and mechanoreceptors respectively. The present review explores how thermal and tactile afference from the periphery can generate the percept of wetness centrally. We propose that the main signals include information about skin cooling signaled primarily by thinly myelinated thermoreceptors and rapid changes in touch through fast-conducting myelinated mechanoreceptors. Potential central sites for integration of these signals and thus the perception of skin wetness include the primary and secondary somatosensory cortices and the insula cortex. The interactions underlying these processes can also be modeled to aid in understanding and engineering the mechanisms. Furthermore we discuss the role that sensing wetness could play in precision grip and the dexterous manipulation of objects. We expand on these lines of inquiry to the application of the knowledge in designing and creating skin sensory feedback in prosthetics. The addition of real-time complex sensory signals would mark a significant advance in the use and incorporation of prosthetic body parts for amputees in everyday life.NEW & NOTEWORTHY Little is known about the underlying mechanisms that generate the perception of skin wetness. Humans have no specific hygroreceptor and thus temperature and touch information combine to produce wetness sensations. The present review covers the potential mechanisms leading to the perception of wetness both peripherally and centrally along with their implications for manual function. These insights are relevant to inform the design of neuroengineering interfaces such as sensory prostheses for amputees. The biology of skin wetness perception and its implications in manual function and for reproducing complex somatosensory signals in neuroprosthetics.