"Deep brain stimulation DBS represents one of the major clinical breakthroughs in the age of translational neuroscience. In 1987 Benabid and colleagues demonstrated that high-frequency stimulation can mimic the effects of ablative neurosurgery in Parkinsons disease PD while offering two key advantages to previous procedures: adjustability and reversibility. Deep brain stimulation is now an established therapeutic approach that robustly alleviates symptoms in patients with movement disorders such as Parkinsons disease essential tremor and dystonia who present with inadequate or adverse responses to medication. Currently stimulation electrodes are implanted in specific target regions of the basal ganglia-thalamic circuit and stimulation pulses are delivered chronically. To achieve optimal therapeutic effect stimulation frequency amplitude and pulse width must be adjusted on a patient-specific basis by a movement disorders specialist. The finding that pathological neural activity can be sampled directly from the target region using the DBS electrode has inspired a novel DBS paradigm: closed-loop adaptive DBS aDBS. The goal of this strategy is to identify pathological and physiologically normal patterns of neuronal activity that can be used to adapt stimulation parameters to the concurrent therapeutic demand. This review will give detailed insight into potential biomarkers and discuss next-generation strategies implementing advances in artificial intelligence to further elevate the therapeutic potential of DBS by capitalizing on its modifiable nature. Development of intelligent aDBS with an ability to deliver highly personalized treatment regimens and to create symptom-specific therapeutic strategies in real-time could allow for significant further improvements in the quality of life for movement disorders patients with DBS that ultimately could outperform traditional drug treatment." Toward Electrophysiology-Based Intelligent Adaptive Deep Brain Stimulation for Movement Disorders.