Background: The ventral tegmental area VTA containing mesolimbic and mesocortical dopaminergic neurons is implicated in processes involving reward addiction reinforcement and learning which are associated with a variety of neuropsychiatric disorders. Electrical stimulation of the VTA or the medial forebrain bundle and its projection target the nucleus accumbens NAc is reported to improve depressive symptoms in patients affected by severe treatment-resistant major depressive disorder MDD and depressive-like symptoms in animal models of depression. Here we sought to determine the neuromodulatory effects of VTA deep brain stimulation DBS in a normal large animal model swine by combining neurochemical measurements with functional magnetic resonance imaging fMRI. Methods: Animals n = 8 swine were implanted with a unilateral DBS electrode targeting the VTA. During stimulation 130 Hz frequency 0.25 ms pulse width and 3 V amplitude fMRI was performed. Following fMRI fast-scan cyclic voltammetry in combination with carbon fiber microelectrodes was performed to quantify VTA-DBS-evoked dopamine release in the ipsilateral NAc. In a subset of swine the blood oxygen level-dependent BOLD percent change evoked by stimulation was performed at increasing voltages 1 2 and 3 V. Results: A significant increase in VTA-DBS-evoked BOLD signal was found in the following regions: the ipsilateral dorsolateral prefrontal cortex anterior and posterior cingulate insula premotor cortex primary somatosensory cortex and striatum. A decrease in the BOLD signal was also observed in the contralateral parahippocampal cortex dorsolateral and anterior prefrontal cortex insula inferior temporal gyrus and primary somatosensory cortex Bonferroni-corrected < 0.001. During neurochemical measurements stimulation time-locked changes in dopamine release were recorded in the NAc confirming that mesolimbic dopaminergic neurons were stimulated by DBS. In the parametric study BOLD signal changes were positively correlated with stimulation amplitude. Conclusions: In this study the modulation of the neural circuitry associated with VTA-DBS was characterized in a large animal. Our findings suggest that VTA-DBS could affect the activity of neural systems and brain regions implicated in reward mood regulation and in the pathophysiology of MDD. In addition we showed that a combination of fMRI and electrochemically-based neurochemical detection platform is an effective investigative tool for elucidating the circuitry involved in VTA-DBS. Functional Circuitry Effect of Ventral Tegmental Area Deep Brain Stimulation: Imaging and Neurochemical Evidence of Mesocortical and Mesolimbic Pathway Modulation.