Functional connectomics is one of the most rapidly expanding areas of neuroimaging research. Yet concerns remain regarding the use of resting-state fMRI R-fMRI to characterize inter-individual variation in the functional connectome. In particular recent findings that "micro" head movements can introduce artifactual inter-individual and group-related differences in R-fMRI metrics have raised concerns. Here we first build on prior demonstrations of regional variation in the magnitude of framewise displacements associated with a given head movement by providing a comprehensive voxel-based examination of the impact of motion on the BOLD signal i.e. motion-BOLD relationships. Positive motion-BOLD relationships were detected in primary and supplementary motor areas particularly in low motion datasets. Negative motion-BOLD relationships were most prominent in prefrontal regions and expanded throughout the brain in high motion datasets e.g. children. Scrubbing of volumes with FD>0.2 effectively removed negative but not positive correlations; these findings suggest that positive relationships may reflect neural origins of motion while negative relationships are likely to originate from motion artifact. We also examined the ability of motion correction strategies to eliminate artifactual differences related to motion among individuals and between groups for a broad array of voxel-wise R-fMRI metrics. Residual relationships between motion and the examined R-fMRI metrics remained for all correction approaches underscoring the need to covary motion effects at the group-level. Notably global signal regression reduced relationships between motion and inter-individual differences in correlation-based R-fMRI metrics; Z-standardization mean-centering and variance normalization of subject-level maps for R-fMRI metrics prior to group-level analyses demonstrated similar advantages. Finally our test-retest TRT analyses revealed significant motion effects on TRT reliability for R-fMRI metrics. Generally motion compromised reliability of R-fMRI metrics with the exception of those based on frequency characteristics - particularly amplitude of low frequency fluctuations ALFF. The implications of our findings for decision-making regarding the assessment and correction of motion are discussed as are insights into potential differences among volume-based metrics of motion. A comprehensive assessment of regional variation in the impact of head micromovements on functional connectomics.