Macroautophagy/autophagy functions as a quality control mechanism by degrading misfolded proteins and damaged organelles and plays an essential role in maintaining neural homeostasis. The phosphoinositide phosphatidylinositol-3-phosphate PtdIns3P effector Atg18 is essential for autophagosome formation in yeast. Mammalian cells contain four Atg18\xa0homologs belonging to two subclasses WIPI1 WD repeat domain phosphoinositide interacting 1 WIPI2 and WDR45B/WIPI3 WD repeat domain 45B WDR45/WIPI4. The role of Wdr45b in autophagy and in neural homeostasis however remains unknown. Recent human genetic studies have revealed a potential causative role of WDR45B in intellectual disability. Here we demonstrated that mice deficient in Wdr45b exhibit motor deficits and learning and memory defects. Histological analysis reveals that wdr45b knockout KO mice exhibit a large number of swollen axons and show cerebellar atrophy. SQSTM1- and ubiquitin-positive aggregates which are autophagy substrates accumulate in various brain regions in wdr45b KO mice. Double KO mice wdr45b and wdr45 die within one day after birth and exhibit more severe autophagy defects than either of the single KO mice suggesting that these two genes act cooperatively in autophagy. Our studies demonstrated that WDR45B is critical for neural homeostasis in mice. The wdr45b KO mice provide a model to study the pathogenesis of intellectual disability.Abbreviations: ACSF: artificial cerebrospinal fluid; AMC: aminomethylcoumarin; BPAN: beta-propeller protein-associated neurodegeneration; CALB1: calbindin 1; CNS: central nervous system; DCN: deep cerebellar nuclei; fEPSP: field excitatory postsynaptic potential; IC: internal capsule; ID: intellectual disability; ISH: in situ hybridization; KO: knockout; LTP: long-term potentiation; MBP: myelin basic protein; MGP: medial globus pallidus; PtdIns3P: phosphoinositide phosphatidylinositol-3-phosphate; WDR45B: WD repeat domain 45B; WIPI1: WD repeat domain phosphoinositide interacting 1; WT: wild type. Role of Wdr45b in maintaining neural autophagy and cognitive function.