Because of the role played by miRNAs in post-transcriptional regulation of an array of genes their impact in neuropsychiatric disease pathophysiology has increasingly been evident. In the present study we assessed microRNA expression in prefrontal cortex Brodmann area 10 of a well-characterized cohort of major depressed bipolar and schizophrenia subjects obtained from Stanley Neuropathology Consortium; n\u200a=\u200a15 in each group using high throughput RT-PCR plates. Discrete miRNA alterations were observed in all disorders as well as in suicide subjects pooled across diagnostic categories compared to all non-suicide subjects. The changes in the schizophrenia group were partially similar to those in the bipolar group but distinct from changes in depression and suicide. Intriguingly those miRNAs which were down-regulated in the schizophrenia group tended to be synaptically enriched whereas up-regulated miRNAs tended not to be. To follow this up we purified synaptosomes from pooled samples of the schizophrenia vs. control groups and subjected them to Illumina deep sequencing. There was a significant loss of small RNA expression in schizophrenia synaptosomes only for certain sequence lengths within the miRNA range. Moreover 73 miRNAs were significantly down-regulated whereas only one was up-regulated. Strikingly across all expressed miRNAs in synaptosomes there was a significant inverse correlation between the fold-change of a given miRNA seen in schizophrenia and its synaptic enrichment ratio observed in controls. Thus synaptic miRNAs tended to be down-regulated in schizophrenia and the more highly synaptically enriched miRNAs tended to show greater down-regulation. These findings point to some deficit in miRNA biogenesis transport processing or turnover in schizophrenia that is selective for the synaptic compartment. A novel class of ncRNA-derived small RNAs shown to be strongly induced during an early phase of learning in mouse is also expressed in man and at least one representative SNORD85 was strongly down-regulated in schizophrenia synaptosomes. Expression of microRNAs and other small RNAs in prefrontal cortex in schizophrenia bipolar disorder and depressed subjects.