Sparse representation-based brain functional network modeling often results in large inter-subject variability in the network structure. This could reduce the statistical power in group comparison or even deteriorate the generalization capability of the individualized diagnosis of brain diseases. Although group sparse representation GSR can alleviate such a limitation by increasing network similarity across subjects it could in turn fail in providing satisfactory separability between the subjects from different groups e.g. patients vs. controls. In this study we propose to integrate individual functional connectivity FC information into the GSR-based network construction framework to achieve higher between-group separability while maintaining the merit of within-group consistency. Our method was based on an observation that the subjects from the same group have generally more similar FC patterns than those from different groups. To this end we propose our new method namely "strength and similarity guided GSR SSGSR" which exploits both BOLD signal temporal correlation-based "low-order" FC LOFC and inter-subject LOFC-profile similarity-based "high-order" FC HOFC as two priors to jointly guide the GSR-based network modeling. Extensive experimental comparisons are carried out with the rs-fMRI data from mild cognitive impairment MCI subjects and healthy controls between the proposed algorithm and other state-of-the-art brain network modeling approaches. Individualized MCI identification results show that our method could achieve a balance between the individually consistent brain functional network construction and the adequately maintained inter-group brain functional network distinctions thus leading to a more accurate classification result. Our method also provides a promising and generalized solution for the future connectome-based individualized diagnosis of brain disease. Strength and Similarity Guided Group-level Brain Functional Network Construction for MCI Diagnosis.