Connectomics is a framework that models brain structure and function interconnectivity as a network rather than narrowly focusing on select regions-of-interest. MRI-derived connectomes can be structural usually based on diffusion-weighted MR imaging or functional usually formed by examining fMRI blood-oxygen-level-dependent BOLD signal correlations. Recently we developed a novel method for assessing the hierarchical modularity of functional brain networks-the probability associated community estimation PACE. PACE uniquely permits a dual formulation thus yielding equivalent connectome modular structure regardless of whether positive or negative edges are considered. This method was rigorously validated using the 1000 functional connectomes project data set F1000 RRID:SCR_005361 1 and the Human Connectome Project HCP RRID:SCR_006942 2 3 and we reported novel sex differences in resting-state connectivity not previously reported. 4 This study further examines sex differences in regard to hierarchical modularity as a function of age and clinical correlates with findings supporting a basal configuration framework as a more nuanced and dynamic way of conceptualizing the resting-state connectome that is modulated by both age and sex. Our results showed that differences in connectivity between men and women in the 22-25 age range were not significantly different. However these same non-significant differences attained significance in both the 26-30 age group p = 0.003 and the 31-35 age group p < 0.001. At the most global level areas of diverging sex difference include parts of the prefrontal cortex and the temporal lobe amygdala hippocampus inferior parietal lobule posterior cingulate and precuneus. Further we identified statistically different self-reported summary scores of inattention hyperactivity and anxiety problems between men and women. These self-reports additionally divergently interact with age and the basal configuration between sexes. From Default Mode Network to the Basal Configuration: Sex Differences in the Resting-State Brain Connectivity as a Function of Age and Their Clinical Correlates.