Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI is gaining popularity in guiding radiation treatment for intrahepatic cancers due to its superior soft tissue contrast and potential of monitoring individual motion and liver function. This study investigates a deep learning-based method that generates synthetic CT volumes from T1-weighted MR Dixon images in support of MRI-based intrahepatic radiotherapy treatment planning. Training deep neutral networks for this purpose has been challenged by mismatches between CT and MR images due to motion and different organ filling status. This work proposes to resolve such challenge by generating "semi-synthetic" CT images from rigidly aligned CT and MR image pairs. Contrasts within skeletal elements of the "semi-synthetic" CT images were determined from CT images while contrasts of soft tissue and air volumes were determined from voxel-wise intensity classification results on MR images. The resulting "semi-synthetic" CT images were paired with their corresponding MR images and used to train a simple U-net model without adversarial components. MR and CT scans of 46 patients were investigated and the proposed method was evaluated for 31 patients with clinical radiotherapy plans using 3-fold cross validation. The averaged mean absolute errors between synthetic CT and CT images across patients were 24.10 HU for liver 28.62 HU for spleen 47.05 HU for kidneys 29.79 HU for spinal cord 105.68 HU for lungs and 110.09 HU for vertebral bodies. VMAT and IMRT plans were optimized using CT-derived electron densities and doses were recalculated using corresponding synthetic CT-derived density grids. Resulting dose differences to planning target volumes and various organs at risk were small with the average difference less than 0.15 Gy for all dose metrics evaluated. The similarities in both image intensity and radiation dose distributions between CT and synthetic CT volumes demonstrate the accuracy of the method and its potential in supporting MRI-only radiotherapy treatment planning. Abdominal synthetic CT generation from MR Dixon images using a U-Net trained with &quot;semi-synthetic&quot; CT data.