The challenges of research into brain-computer interfaces BCI include significant individual differences in learning pace and in the effective operation of BCI devices. The use of neurofeedback training is a popular method of improving the effectiveness BCI operation. The purpose of the present study was to determine to what extent it is possible to improve the effectiveness of operation of sensorimotor rhythm-based brain-computer interfaces SMR-BCI by supplementing user training with elements modifying the characteristics of visual feedback. Four experimental groups had training designed to reinforce BCI control by: visual feedback in the form of dummy faces expressing emotions Group 1; flashing the principal elements of visual feedback Group 2 and giving both visual feedbacks in one condition Group 3. The fourth group participated in training with no modifications Group 4. Training consisted of a series of trials where the subjects directed a ball into a basket located to the right or left side of the screen. In Group 1 a schematic image a face placed on the controlled object showed various emotions depending on the accuracy of control. In Group 2 the cue and targets were flashed with different frequency 4\xa0Hz than the remaining elements visible on the monitor. Both modifications were also used simultaneously in Group 3. SMR activity during the task was recorded before and after the training. In Group 3 there was a significant improvement in SMR control compared to subjects in Group 2 and 4 control. Differences between subjects in Groups 1 2 and 4 control were insignificant. This means that relatively small changes in the training procedure may significantly impact the effectiveness of BCI control. Analysis of behavioural data acquired from all participants at training showed greater effectiveness in directing the object towards the right side of the screen. Subjects with the greatest improvement in SMR control showed a significantly lower difference in the accuracy of rightward and leftward movement than others. The Impact of Different Visual Feedbacks in User Training on Motor Imagery Control in BCI.