"Semi-quantitative scoring schemes like the Consortium to Establish a Registry for Alzheimers Disease CERAD are the most commonly used method in Alzheimers disease AD neuropathology practice. Computational approaches based on machine learning have recently generated quantitative scores for whole slide images WSIs that are highly correlated with human derived semi-quantitative scores such as those of CERAD for Alzheimers disease pathology. However the robustness of such models have yet to be tested in different cohorts. To validate previously published machine learning algorithms using convolutional neural networks CNNs and determine if pathological heterogeneity may alter algorithm derived measures 40 cases from the Goizueta Emory Alzheimers Disease Center brain bank displaying an array of pathological diagnoses including AD with and without Lewy body disease LBD and / or TDP-43-positive inclusions and levels of A pathologies were evaluated. Furthermore to provide deeper phenotyping amyloid burden in gray matter vs whole tissue were compared and quantitative CNN scores for both correlated significantly to CERAD-like scores. Quantitative scores also show clear stratification based on AD pathologies with or without additional diagnoses including LBD and TDP-43 inclusions vs cases with no significant neurodegeneration control cases as well as NIA Reagan scoring criteria. Specifically the concomitant diagnosis group of AD + TDP-43 showed significantly greater CNN-score for cored plaques than the AD group. Finally we report that whole tissue computational scores correlate better with CERAD-like categories than focusing on computational scores from a field of view with densest pathology which is the standard of practice in neuropathological assessment per CERAD guidelines. Together these findings validate and expand CNN models to be robust to cohort variations and provide additional proof-of-concept for future studies to incorporate machine learning algorithms into neuropathological practice." Validation of machine learning models to detect amyloid pathologies across institutions.