"Magnetoencephelography MEG is a functional neuroimaging tool that records the magnetic fields induced by neuronal activity; however signal from muscle activity often corrupts the data. Eye-blinks are one of the most common types of muscle artifact. They can be recorded by affixing eye proximal electrodes as in electrooculography EOG however this complicates patient preparation and decreases comfort. Moreover it can induce further muscular artifacts from facial twitching. We propose an EOG free data driven approach. We begin with Independent Component Analysis ICA a well-known preprocessing approach that factors observed signal into statistically independent components. When applied to MEG ICA can help separate neuronal components from non-neuronal ones however the components are randomly ordered. Thus we develop a method to assign one of two labels non-eye-blink or eye-blink to each component. Our contributions are two-fold. First we develop a 10-layer Convolutional Neural Network CNN which directly labels eye-blink artifacts. Second we visualize the learned spatial features using attention mapping to reveal what it has learned and bolster confidence in the methods ability to generalize to unseen data. We acquired 8-min eyes open resting state MEG from 44 subjects. We trained our method on the spatial maps from ICA of 14 subjects selected randomly with expertly labeled ground truth. We then tested on the remaining 30 subjects. Our approach achieves a test classification accuracy of 99.67% sensitivity: 97.62% specificity: 99.77% and ROC AUC: 98.69%. We also show the learned spatial features correspond to those human experts typically use which corroborates our models validity. This work 1 facilitates creation of fully automated processing pipelines in MEG that need to remove motion artifacts related to eye blinks and 2 potentially obviates the use of additional EOG electrodes for the recording of eye-blinks in MEG studies." Using Convolutional Neural Networks to Automatically Detect Eye-Blink Artifacts in Magnetoencephalography Without Resorting to Electrooculography.