Our work aimed to demonstrate the combination of machine learning and graph theory for the designing of a connectomic biomarker for mild cognitive impairment MCI subjects using eyes-closed neuromagnetic recordings. The whole analysis based on source-reconstructed neuromagnetic activity. As ROI representation we employed the principal component analysis PCA and centroid approaches. As representative bi-variate connectivity estimators for the estimation of intra and cross-frequency interactions we adopted the phase locking value PLV the imaginary part iPLV and the correlation of the envelope CorrEnv. Both intra and cross-frequency interactions CFC have been estimated with the three connectivity estimators within the seven frequency bands intra-frequency and in pairs CFC correspondingly. We demonstrated how different versions of functional connectivity graphs single-layer SL-FCG and multi-layer ML-FCG can give us a different view of the functional interactions across the brain areas. Finally we applied machine learning techniques with main scope to build a reliable connectomic biomarker by analyzing both SL-FCG and ML-FCG in two different options: as a whole unit using a tensorial extraction algorithm and as single pair-wise coupling estimations. We concluded that edge-weighed feature selection strategy outperformed the tensorial treatment of SL-FCG and ML-FCG. The highest classification performance was obtained with the centroid ROI representation and edge-weighted analysis of the SL-FCG reaching the 98% for the CorrEnv in 1:2 and 94% for the iPLV in 2. Classification performance based on the multi-layer participation coefficient a multiplexity index reached 52% for iPLV and 52% for CorrEnv. Selected functional connections that build the multivariate connectomic biomarker in the edge-weighted scenario are located in default-mode fronto-parietal and cingulo-opercular network. Our analysis supports the notion of analyzing FCG simultaneously in intra and cross-frequency whole brain interactions with various connectivity estimators in beamformed recordings. How to Build a Functional Connectomic Biomarker for Mild Cognitive Impairment From Source Reconstructed MEG Resting-State Activity: The Combination of ROI Representation and Connectivity Estimator Matters.