Multisite implantable electrode arrays serve as a tool to understand cortical network connectivity and plasticity. Furthermore they enable electrical stimulation to drive plasticity study motor/sensory mapping or provide network input for controlling brain-computer interfaces. Neurobehavioral rodent models are prevalent in studies of motor cortex injury and recovery as well as restoration of auditory/visual cues due to their relatively low cost and ease of training. Therefore it is important to understand the chronic performance of relevant electrode arrays in rodent models. In this report we evaluate the chronic recording and electrochemical performance of 16-channel Utah electrode arrays the current state-of-the-art in pre-/clinical cortical recording and stimulation in rat motor cortex over a period of 6 mo. The single-unit active electrode yield decreased from 52.8\u2009\u200910.0  week 1 to 13.4\u2009\u20095.1%  week 24. Similarly the total number of single units recorded on all electrodes across all arrays decreased from 106 to 15 over the same time period. Parallel measurements of electrochemical impedance spectra and cathodic charge storage capacity exhibited significant changes in electrochemical characteristics consistent with development of electrolyte leakage pathways over time. Additionally measurements of maximum cathodal potential excursion indicated that only a relatively small fraction of electrodes 10-35% at 1 and 24 wk postimplantation were capable of delivering relevant currents 20 A at 4 nC/ph without exceeding negative or positive electrochemical potential limits. In total our findings suggest mainly abiotic failure modes including mechanical wire breakage as well as degradation of conducting and insulating substrates. NEW & NOTEWORTHY Multisite implantable electrode arrays serve as a tool to record cortical network activity and enable electrical stimulation to drive plasticity or provide network feedback. The use of rodent models in these fields is prevalent. We evaluated chronic recording and electrochemical performance of 16-channel Utah electrode arrays in rat motor cortex over a period of 6 mo. We primarily observed abiotic failure modes suggestive of mechanical wire breakage and/or degradation of insulation. Chronic recording and electrochemical performance of Utah microelectrode arrays implanted in rat motor cortex.