Hashing has been an important and effective technology in image retrieval due to its computational efficiency and fast search speed. The traditional hashing methods usually learn hash functions to obtain binary codes by exploiting hand-crafted features which cannot optimally represent the information of the sample. Recently deep learning methods can achieve better performance since deep learning architectures can learn more effective image representation features. However these methods only use semantic features to generate hash codes by shallow projection but ignore texture details. In this paper we proposed a novel hashing method namely hierarchical recurrent neural hashing HRNH to exploit hierarchical recurrent neural network to generate effective hash codes. There are three contributions of this paper. First a deep hashing method is proposed to extensively exploit both spatial details and semantic information in which we leverage hierarchical convolutional features to construct image pyramid representation. Second our proposed deep network can exploit directly convolutional feature maps as input to preserve the spatial structure of convolutional feature maps. Finally we propose a new loss function that considers the quantization error of binarizing the continuous embeddings into the discrete binary codes and simultaneously maintains the semantic similarity and balanceable property of hash codes. Experimental results on four widely used data sets demonstrate that the proposed HRNH can achieve superior performance over other state-of-the-art hashing methods.Hashing has been an important and effective technology in image retrieval due to its computational efficiency and fast search speed. The traditional hashing methods usually learn hash functions to obtain binary codes by exploiting hand-crafted features which cannot optimally represent the information of the sample. Recently deep learning methods can achieve better performance since deep learning architectures can learn more effective image representation features. However these methods only use semantic features to generate hash codes by shallow projection but ignore texture details. In this paper we proposed a novel hashing method namely hierarchical recurrent neural hashing HRNH to exploit hierarchical recurrent neural network to generate effective hash codes. There are three contributions of this paper. First a deep hashing method is proposed to extensively exploit both spatial details and semantic information in which we leverage hierarchical convolutional features to construct image pyramid representation. Second our proposed deep network can exploit directly convolutional feature maps as input to preserve the spatial structure of convolutional feature maps. Finally we propose a new loss function that considers the quantization error of binarizing the continuous embeddings into the discrete binary codes and simultaneously maintains the semantic similarity and balanceable property of hash codes. Experimental results on four widely used data sets demonstrate that the proposed HRNH can achieve superior performance over other state-of-the-art hashing methods. Hierarchical Recurrent Neural Hashing for Image Retrieval With Hierarchical Convolutional Features.