"Brain-computer interfaces BCIs benefit greatly from performance feedback but current systems lack automatic task-independent feedback. Cortical responses elicited from user error have the potential to serve as state-based feedback to BCI decoders. To gain a better understanding of local error potentials we investigate responsive cortical power underlying error-related potentials ErrPs from the human cortex during a one-dimensional center-out BCI task tracking the topography of high-gamma 70-100 Hz band power HBP specific to BCI error. We measured electrocorticography ECoG in three human subjects during dynamic continuous control over BCI cursor velocity. Subjects used motor imagery and rest to move the cursor toward and subsequently dwell within a target region. We then identified and labeled epochs where the BCI decoder incorrectly moved the cursor in the direction opposite of the subjects expectations i.e. BCI error. We found increased HBP in various cortical areas 100-500 ms following BCI error with respect to epochs of correct intended control. Significant responses were noted in primary somatosensory motor premotor and parietal areas and generally regardless of whether the subject was using motor imagery or rest to move the cursor toward the target. Parts of somatosensory temporal and parietal areas exclusively had increased HBP when subjects were using motor imagery. In contrast only part of the parietal cortex near the angular gyrus exclusively had an increase in HBP during rest. This investigation is to our knowledge the first to explore cortical fields changes in the context of continuous control in ECoG BCI. We present topographical changes in HBP characteristic specific to the generation of error. By focusing on continuous control instead of on discrete control for simple selection we investigate a more naturalistic setting and provide high ecological validity for characterizing error potentials. Such potentials could be considered as design elements for co-adaptive BCIs in the future as task-independent feedback to the decoder allowing for more robust and individualized BCIs." Cortical Topography of Error-Related High-Frequency Potentials During Erroneous Control in a Continuous Control Brain-Computer Interface.