"We address advanced Internet for complex telehealth applications by reviewing four hospital-based broadband telehealth projects and identifying common threads. These projects were conducted in Australia under a 6-year research project on broadband Internet applications. Each project addressed specific clinical needs and its development was guided by the clinicians involved. Each project was trialed in the field and evaluated against the initial requirements. The four projects covered remote management of a resuscitation team in a district hospital remote guidance and interpretation of echocardiography virtual-reality-based instructor-student surgical training and postoperative outpatient consultations following pediatric surgery. Each was characterized by a high level of interpersonal communication a high level of clinical expertise and multiple participants. Each made use of multiple high-quality video and audio links and shared real-time access to clinical data. Four common threads were observed. Each application provided a high level of usability and task focus because the design and use of broadband capability was aimed directly to meet the clinicians needs. Each used the media quality available over broadband to convey words gestures body movements and facial expressions to support communication and a sense of presence among the participants. Each required a complex information space shared among the participants including real-time access to stored patient data and real-time interactive access to the patients themselves. Finally each application supported the social and organizational aspects of their healthcare focus creating and maintaining relationships between the various participants and this was done by placing the telehealth application into a wider functioning clinical context. These findings provide evidence for a significantly enhanced role for appropriate telemedicine systems running on advanced networks in a wider range of clinical applications more deeply integrated into healthcare systems." Telehealth on advanced networks.