A resting-state functional connectivity rsFC-constructed functional network FN derived from functional magnetic resonance imaging fMRI data can effectively mine alterations in brain function during aging due to the non-invasive and effective advantages of fMRI. With global health research focusing on aging several open fMRI datasets have been made available that combine deep learning with big data and are a new promising trend and open issue for brain information detection in fMRI studies of brain aging. In this study we proposed a new method based on deep learning from the perspective of big data named Deep neural network DNN with Autoencoder AE pretrained Functional connectivity Analysis DAFA to deeply mine the important functional connectivity changes in fMRI during brain aging. First using resting-state fMRI data from 421 subjects from the CamCAN dataset functional connectivities were calculated using sliding window method and the complex functional patterns were mined by an AE. Then to increase the statistical power and reliability of the results we used an AE-pretrained DNN to relabel the functional connectivities of each subject to classify them as belonging to the attributes of young or old individuals. A method called search-back analysis was performed to find alterations in brain function during aging according to the relabeled functional connectivities. Finally behavioral data regarding fluid intelligence and response time were used to verify the revealed functional changes. Compared to traditional methods DAFA revealed additional important aged-related changes in FC patterns e.g. FC connections within the default mode DMN and the sensorimotor and cingulo-opercular networks as well as connections between the frontoparietal and cingulo-opercular networks between the DMN and the frontoparietal/cingulo-opercular/sensorimotor/occipital/cerebellum networks and between the sensorimotor and frontoparietal/cingulo-opercular networks which were correlated to behavioral data. These findings demonstrated that the proposed DAFA method was superior to traditional FC-determining methods in discovering changes in brain functional connectivity during aging. In addition it may be a promising method for exploring important information in other fMRI studies. Detecting the Information of Functional Connectivity Networks in Normal Aging Using Deep Learning From a Big Data Perspective.