Great advances have been made in signaling information on brain activity in individuals or passing between an individual and a computer or robot. These include recording of natural activity using implants under the scalp or by external means or the reverse feeding of such data into the brain. In one recent example noninvasive transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS allowed feeding of digitalized information into the central nervous system CNS. Thus noninvasive electroencephalography EEG recordings of motor signals at the scalp representing specific motor intention of hand moving in individual humans were fed as repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation rTMS at a maximum intensity of 2.0Formula: see textT through a circular magnetic coil placed flush on each of the heads of subjects present at a different location. The TMS was said to induce an electric current influencing axons of the motor cortex causing the intended hand movement: the first example of the transfer of motor intention and its expression between the brains of two remote humans. However to date the mechanisms involved not least that relating to the participation of magnetic induction remain unclear. In general in animal biology magnetic fields are usually the poor relation of neuronal current: generally "unseen" and if apparent disregarded or just given a nod. Niels Bohr searched for a biological parallel to complementary phenomena of physics. Pertinently the two-brains hypothesis TBH proposed recently that advanced animals especially man have two brains i.e. the animal CNS evolved as two fundamentally different though interdependent complementary organs: one electro-ionic tangible known and accessible and the other electromagnetic intangible and difficult to access\xa0- a stable structured and functional 3D compendium of variously induced interacting electro-magnetic EM fields. Research on the CNS in health and disease progresses including that on brain-brain brain-computer and brain-robot engineering. As they grow even closer these disciplines involve their own unique complexities including direction by the laws of inductive physics. So the novel TBH hypothesis has wide fundamental implications including those related to TMS. These require rethinking and renewed research engaging the fully complementary equivalence of mutual magnetic and electric field induction in the CNS and within this context a new mathematics of the brain to decipher higher cognitive operations not possible with current brain-brain and brain-machine interfaces. Bohr may now rest. The Two-Brains Hypothesis: Towards a guide for brain-brain and brain-machine interfaces.