Medical devices equipped with position sensors enable applications like image guided surgical interventions reconstruction of three-dimensional 3D ultrasound US images and virtual or augmented reality systems. The acquisition of three-dimensional position data in real time is one of the key technologies in this field. The systematic distortions induced by various metals surgical tools and US scan probes in different commercial electromagnetic tracking systems were assessed in the presented work. A precise nonmetallic six degree-of-freedom measurement rack was built that allowed a quantitative comparison of different electromagnetic trackers. Also their performance in the presence of large metallic structures was quantified in a phantom study on an acrylic skull model in an operating room OR. The trackers used were alternating current ac and direct current dc based systems. The ac trackers were on average distorted by 0.7 mm and 0.5 degree by metallic objects positioned at a distance greater than 120 mm between the geometrical center of the sample and the sensor. In the OR environment the ac system exhibits mean errors of 3.2 +/- 2.4 mm and 2.9 degrees +/- 1.9 degrees. The dc trackers are more sensitive to distortions caused by ferromagnetic materials averaged value: 1.6 mm and 0.5 degree beyond a distance of 120 mm. The dc tracker shows no distortions from other conductive materials but was less accurate in the OR environment typical error: 6.4 +/- 2.5 mm and 4.9 degrees +/- 2.0 degrees. At distances smaller than approximately 100 mm between sample and sensor error increases quickly. It is also apparent from our measurements that the influence of US scan probes is governed by their shielding material. The results show that surgical instruments not containing conductive material are to be preferred when using an ac tracker. Nonferromagnetic instruments should be used with dc trackers. Static distortions caused by the OR environment have to be compensated by precise calibration methods. Systematic distortions in magnetic position digitizers.