Purpose To assess whether early brain functional connectivity is associated with functional recovery 1 year after cardiac arrest CA. Materials and Methods Enrolled in this prospective multicenter cohort were 46 patients who were comatose after CA. Principal outcome was cerebral performance category at 12 months with favorable outcome FO defined as cerebral performance category 1 or 2. All participants underwent multiparametric structural and functional magnetic resonance MR imaging less than 4 weeks after CA. Within- and between-network connectivity was measured in dorsal attention network DAN default-mode network DMN salience network SN and executive control network ECN by using seed-based analysis of resting-state functional MR imaging data. Structural changes identified with fluid-attenuated inversion recovery and diffusion-weighted imaging sequences were analyzed by using validated morphologic scales. The association between connectivity measures structural changes and the principal outcome was explored with multivariable modeling. Results Patients underwent MR imaging a mean 12.6 days  5.6 standard deviation after CA. At 12 months 11 patients had an FO. Patients with FO had higher within-DMN connectivity and greater anticorrelation between SN and DMN and between SN and ECN compared with patients with unfavorable outcome an effect that was maintained after multivariable adjustment. Anticorrelation of SN-DMN predicted outcomes with higher accuracy than fluid-attenuated inversion recovery or diffusion-weighted imaging scores area under the receiver operating characteristic curves respectively 0.88 0.74 and 0.71. Conclusion MR imaging-based measures of cerebral functional network connectivity obtained in the acute phase of CA were independently associated with FO at 1 year warranting validation as early markers of long-term recovery potential in patients with anoxic-ischemic encephalopathy.  RSNA 2017. Early Functional Connectome Integrity and 1-Year Recovery in Comatose Survivors of Cardiac Arrest.