Long working hours and sleep deprivation have been a facet of physician training in the US since the advent of the modern residency system. However the scientific evidence linking fatigue with deficits in human performance accidents and errors in industries from aeronautics to medicine nuclear power and transportation has mounted over the last 40 years. This evidence has also spawned regulations to help ensure public safety across safety-sensitive industries with the notable exception of medicine. In late 2007 at the behest of the US Congress the Institute of Medicine embarked on a year-long examination of the scientific evidence linking resident physician sleep deprivation with clinical performance deficits and medical errors. The Institute of Medicine\s report entitled "Resident duty hours: Enhancing sleep supervision and safety" published in January 2009 recommended new limits on resident physician work hours and workload increased supervision a heightened focus on resident physician safety training in structured handovers and quality improvement more rigorous external oversight of work hours and other aspects of residency training and the identification of expanded funding sources necessary to implement the recommended reforms successfully and protect the public and resident physicians themselves from preventable harm. Given that resident physicians comprise almost a quarter of all physicians who work in hospitals and that taxpayers through Medicare and Medicaid fund graduate medical education the public has a deep investment in physician training. Patients expect to receive safe high-quality care in the nation\s teaching hospitals. Because it is their safety that is at issue their voices should be central in policy decisions affecting patient safety. It is likewise important to integrate the perspectives of resident physicians policy makers and other constituencies in designing new policies. However since its release discussion of the Institute of Medicine report has been largely confined to the medical education community led by the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education ACGME. To begin gathering these perspectives and developing a plan to implement safer work hours for resident physicians a conference entitled "Enhancing sleep supervision and safety: What will it take to implement the Institute of Medicine recommendations?" was held at Harvard Medical School on June 17-18 2010. This White Paper is a product of a diverse group of 26 representative stakeholders bringing relevant new information and innovative practices to bear on a critical patient safety problem. Given that our conference included experts from across disciplines with diverse perspectives and interests not every recommendation was endorsed by each invited conference participant. However every recommendation made here was endorsed by the majority of the group and many were endorsed unanimously. Conference members participated in the process reviewed the final product and provided input before publication. Participants provided their individual perspectives which do not necessarily represent the formal views of any organization. In September 2010 the ACGME issued new rules to go into effect on July 1 2011. Unfortunately they stop considerably short of the Institute of Medicine\s recommendations and those endorsed by this conference. In particular the ACGME only applied the limitation of 16 hours to first-year resident physicans. Thus it is clear that policymakers hospital administrators and residency program directors who wish to implement safer health care systems must go far beyond what the ACGME will require. We hope this White Paper will serve as a guide and provide encouragement for that effort. Implementing the 2009 Institute of Medicine recommendations on resident physician work hours supervision and safety.