"Brain networks or connectomes include a minority of highly connected hub nodes that are functionally valuable because their topological centrality supports integrative processing and adaptive behaviours. Recent studies also suggest that hubs have higher metabolic demands and longer-distance connections than other brain regions and therefore could be considered biologically costly. Assuming that hubs thus normally combine both high topological value and high biological cost we predicted that pathological brain lesions would be concentrated in hub regions. To test this general hypothesis we first identified the hubs of brain anatomical networks estimated from diffusion tensor imaging data on healthy volunteers n = 56 and showed that computational attacks targeted on hubs disproportionally degraded the efficiency of brain networks compared to random attacks. We then prepared grey matter lesion maps based on meta-analyses of published magnetic resonance imaging data on more than 20 000 subjects and 26 different brain disorders. Magnetic resonance imaging lesions that were common across all brain disorders were more likely to be located in hubs of the normal brain connectome P < 10-4 permutation test. Specifically nine brain disorders had lesions that were significantly more likely to be located in hubs P < 0.05 permutation test including schizophrenia and Alzheimers disease. Both these disorders had significantly hub-concentrated lesion distributions although almost completely distinct subsets of cortical hubs were lesioned in each disorder: temporal lobe hubs specifically were associated with higher lesion probability in Alzheimers disease whereas in schizophrenia lesions were concentrated in both frontal and temporal cortical hubs. These results linking pathological lesions to the topological centrality of nodes in the normal diffusion tensor imaging connectome were generally replicated when hubs were defined instead by the meta-analysis of more than 1500 task-related functional neuroimaging studies of healthy volunteers to create a normative functional co-activation network. We conclude that the high cost/high value hubs of human brain networks are more likely to be anatomically abnormal than non-hubs in many if not all brain disorders." The hubs of the human connectome are generally implicated in the anatomy of brain disorders.