"In this paper we describe the PERFORM system for the continuous remote monitoring and management of Parkinsons disease PD patients. The PERFORM system is an intelligent closed-loop system that seamlessly integrates a wide range of wearable sensors constantly monitoring several motor signals of the PD patients. Data acquired are pre-processed by advanced knowledge processing methods integrated by fusion algorithms to allow health professionals to remotely monitor the overall status of the patients adjust medication schedules and personalize treatment. The information collected by the sensors accelerometers and gyroscopes is processed by several classifiers. As a result it is possible to evaluate and quantify the PD motor symptoms related to end of dose deterioration tremor bradykinesia freezing of gait FoG as well as those related to over-dose concentration Levodopa-induced dyskinesia LID. Based on this information together with information derived from tests performed with a virtual reality glove and information about the medication and food intake a patient specific profile can be built. In addition the patient specific profile with his evaluation during the last week and last month is compared to understand whether his status is stable improving or worsening. Based on that the system analyses whether a medication change is needed--always under medical supervision--and in this case information about the medication change proposal is sent to the patient. The performance of the system has been evaluated in real life conditions the accuracy and acceptability of the system by the PD patients and healthcare professionals has been tested and a comparison with the standard routine clinical evaluation done by the PD patients physician has been carried out. The PERFORM system is used by the PD patients and in a simple and safe non-invasive way for long-term record of their motor status thus offering to the clinician a precise long-term and objective view of patients motor status and drug/food intake. Thus with the PERFORM system the clinician can remotely receive precise information for the PD patients status on previous days and define the optimal therapeutical treatment." "PERFORM: a system for monitoring assessment and management of patients with Parkinsons disease."