Everyday behaviors require that we interact with the environment using sensory information in an ongoing manner to guide our actions. Yet by design many of the tasks used in primate neurophysiology laboratories can be performed with limited sensory guidance. As a consequence our knowledge about the neural mechanisms of motor control is largely limited to the feedforward aspects of the motor command. To study the feedback aspects of volitional motor control we adapted the critical stability task CST from the human performance literature Jex H McDonnell J Phatak A. IEEE Trans Hum Factors Electron 7: 138-145 1966. In the CST our monkey subjects interact with an inherently unstable i.e. divergent virtual system and must generate sensory-guided actions to stabilize it about an equilibrium point. The difficulty of the CST is determined by a single parameter which allows us to quantitatively establish the limits of performance in the task for different sensory feedback conditions. Two monkeys learned to perform the CST with visual or vibrotactile feedback. Performance was better under visual feedback as expected but both monkeys were able to utilize vibrotactile feedback alone to successfully perform the CST. We also observed changes in behavioral strategy as the task became more challenging. The CST will have value for basic science investigations of the neural basis of sensory-motor integration during ongoing actions and it may also provide value for the design and testing of bidirectional brain computer interface systems. NEW & NOTEWORTHY Currently most behavioral tasks used in motor neurophysiology studies require primates to make short-duration stereotyped movements that do not necessitate sensory feedback. To improve our understanding of sensorimotor integration and to engineer meaningful artificial sensory feedback systems for brain-computer interfaces it is crucial to have a task that requires sensory feedback for good control. The critical stability task demands that sensory information be used to guide long-duration movements. The critical stability task: quantifying sensory-motor control during ongoing movement in nonhuman primates.