"Peripheral vision loss results in the inability to detect objects in the peripheral visual field which affects the ability to evaluate and avoid potential hazards. A different number of assistive navigation systems have been developed to help people with vision impairments using wearable and portable devices. Most of these systems are designed to search for obstacles and provide safe navigation paths for visually impaired people without any prioritisation of the degree of danger for each hazard. This paper presents a new context-aware hybrid indoor/outdoor hazard classification assistive technology to help people with peripheral vision loss in their navigation using computer-enabled smart glasses equipped with a wide-angle camera. Our proposed system augments users existing healthy vision with suitable meaningful and smart notifications to attract the users attention to possible obstructions or hazards in their peripheral field of view. A deep learning object detector is implemented to recognise static and moving objects in real time. After detecting the objects a Kalman Filter multi-object tracker is used to track these objects over time to determine the motion model. For each tracked object its motion model represents its way of moving around the user. Motion features are extracted while the object is still in the users field of vision. These features are then used to quantify the danger using five predefined hazard classes using a neural network-based classifier. The classification performance is tested on both publicly available and private datasets and the system shows promising results with up to 90% True Positive Rate TPR associated with as low as 7% False Positive Rate FPR 13% False Negative Rate FNR and an average testing Mean Square Error MSE of 8.8%. The provided hazard type is then translated into a smart notification to increase the users cognitive perception using the healthy vision within the visual field. A participant study was conducted with a group of patients with different visual field defects to explore their feedback about the proposed system and the notification generation stage. The real-world outdoor evaluation of human subjects is planned to be performed in our near future work." A Smart Context-Aware Hazard Attention System to Help People with Peripheral Vision Loss.