"Over the last few decades there has been an increased concern about the health risks from exposure to metallic trace elements including arsenic because of their potential neurotoxic effects on the developing brain. This study assessed whether urinary arsenic UA levels are associated with attention performance and Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder ADHD in children living in an area with high industrial and mining activities in Southwestern Spain. A cross-sectional study was conducted on 261 children aged 6-9 years. Arsenic levels were determined in urine samples. Attention was measured by using 4 independent tools: a tests from the Behavioral Assessment and Research System BARS designed to measure attention function: Simple Reaction Time Test RTT Continuous Performance Test CPT and Selective Attention Test SAT; b AULA Test a virtual reality VR-based test that evaluates childrens response to several stimuli in an environment simulating a classroom; c Child Behavior Checklist CBCL administered to parents; and d Teachers Report Form TRF administered to teachers. Multivariate linear and logistic regression models adjusted for potential confounders were used to estimate the magnitude of the association between UA levels and attention performance scores. Higher UA levels were associated with an increased latency of response in RTT  = 12.3; 95% confidence interval CI: 3.5-21.1 and SAT  = 3.6; 95% CI: .4-6.8 as well as with worse performance on selective and focalized attention in the AULA test  for impulsivity = .6; 95% CI: .1-1.1;  for inattention = .5; 95% CI: .03-1.0. A dose-response relationship was observed between UA levels and inattention and impulsivity scores. In contrast results from the CBCL and TRF tests failed to show a significant association with UA levels. In conclusion UA levels were associated with impaired attention/cognitive function even at levels considered safe. These results provide additional evidence that postnatal arsenic exposure impairs neurological function in children." Postnatal arsenic exposure and attention impairment in school children.