"Telepresence systems have the potential to overcome limits and distance constraints of the real-world by enabling people to remotely visit and interact with each other. However current telepresence systems usually lack natural ways of supporting interaction and exploration of remote environments REs. In particular single webcams for capturing the RE provide only a limited illusion of spatial presence and movement control of mobile platforms in todays telepresence systems are often restricted to simple interaction devices. One of the main challenges of telepresence systems is to allow users to explore a RE in an immersive intuitive and natural way e.g. by real walking in the users local environment LE and thus controlling motions of the robot platform in the RE. However the LE in which the users motions are tracked usually provides a much smaller interaction space than the RE. In this context redirected walking RDW is a very suitable approach to solve this problem. However so far there is no previous work which explored if and how RDW can be used in video-based 360 telepresence systems. In this article we conducted two psychophysical experiments in which we have quantified how much humans can be unknowingly redirected on virtual paths in the RE which are different from the physical paths that they actually walk in the LE. Experiment 1 introduces a discrimination task between local and remote translations and in Experiment 2 we analyzed the discrimination between local and remote rotations. In Experiment 1 participants performed straightforward translations in the LE that were mapped to straightforward translations in the RE shown as 360 videos which were manipulated by different gains. Then participants had to estimate if the remotely perceived translation was faster or slower than the actual physically performed translation. Similarly in Experiment 2 participants performed rotations in the LE that were mapped to the virtual rotations in a 360 video-based RE to which we applied different gains. Again participants had to estimate whether the remotely perceived rotation was smaller or larger than the actual physically performed rotation. Our results show that participants are not able to reliably discriminate the difference between physical motion in the LE and the virtual motion from the 360 video RE when virtual translations are down-scaled by 5.8% and up-scaled by 9.7% and virtual rotations are about 12.3% less or 9.2% more than the corresponding physical rotations in the LE." Detection Thresholds for Rotation and Translation Gains in 360 Video-Based Telepresence Systems.