In recent years with the explosion of multimedia data from search engines social media and e-commerce platforms there is an urgent need for fast retrieval methods for massive big data. Hashing is widely used in large-scale and high-dimensional data search because of its low storage cost and fast query speed. Thanks to the great success of deep learning in many fields the deep learning method has been introduced into hashing retrieval and it uses a deep neural network to learn image features and hash codes simultaneously. Compared with the traditional hashing methods it has better performance. However existing deep hashing methods have some limitations; for example most methods consider only one kind of supervised loss which leads to insufficient utilization of supervised information. To address this issue we proposed a triplet deep hashing method with joint supervised loss based on the convolutional neural network JLTDH in this work. The proposed method JLTDH combines triplet likelihood loss and linear classification loss; moreover the triplet supervised label is adopted which contains richer supervised information than that of the pointwise and pairwise labels. At the same time in order to overcome the cubic increase in the number of triplets and make triplet training more effective we adopt a novel triplet selection method. The whole process is divided into two stages: In the first stage taking the triplets generated by the triplet selection method as the input of the CNN the three CNNs with shared weights are used for image feature learning and the last layer of the network outputs a preliminary hash code. In the second stage relying on the hash code of the first stage and the joint loss function the neural network model is further optimized so that the generated hash code has higher query precision. We perform extensive experiments on the three public benchmark datasets CIFAR-10 NUS-WIDE and MS-COCO. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed method outperforms the compared methods and the method is also superior to all previous deep hashing methods based on the triplet label. Triplet Deep Hashing with Joint Supervised Loss Based on Deep Neural Networks.