"Objective: Brain-machine interfaces BMIs are useful for inducing plastic changes in cortical representation. A BMI first decodes hand movements using cortical signals and then converts the decoded information into movements of a robotic hand. By using the BMI robotic hand the cortical representation decoded by the BMI is modulated to improve decoding accuracy. We developed a BMI based on real-time magnetoencephalography MEG signals to control a robotic hand using decoded hand movements. Subjects were trained to use the BMI robotic hand freely for 10 min to evaluate plastic changes in the cortical representation due to the training. Method: We trained nine young healthy subjects with normal motor function. In open-loop conditions they were instructed to grasp or open their right hands during MEG recording. Time-averaged MEG signals were then used to train a real decoder to control the robotic arm in real time. Then subjects were instructed to control the BMI-controlled robotic hand by moving their right hands for 10 min while watching the robots movement. During this closed-loop session subjects tried to improve their ability to control the robot. Finally subjects performed the same offline task to compare cortical activities related to the hand movements. As a control we used a random decoder trained by the MEG signals with shuffled movement labels. We performed the same experiments with the random decoder as a crossover trial. To evaluate the cortical representation cortical currents were estimated using a source localization technique. Hand movements were also decoded by a support vector machine using the MEG signals during the offline task. The classification accuracy of the movements was compared among offline tasks. Results: During the BMI training with the real decoder the subjects succeeded in improving their accuracy in controlling the BMI robotic hand with correct rates of 0.28  0.13 to 0.50  0.11 p = 0.017 n = 8 paired Students t-test. Moreover the classification accuracy of hand movements during the offline task was significantly increased after BMI training with the real decoder from 62.7  6.5 to 70.0  11.1% p = 0.022 n = 8 t7 = 2.93 paired Students t-test whereas accuracy did not significantly change after BMI training with the random decoder from 63.0  8.8 to 66.4  9.0% p = 0.225 n = 8 t7 = 1.33. Conclusion: BMI training is a useful tool to train the cortical activity necessary for BMI control and to induce some plastic changes in the activity." Training in Use of Brain-Machine Interface-Controlled Robotic Hand Improves Accuracy Decoding Two Types of Hand Movements.