Although face recognition systems have wide application they are vulnerable to presentation attack samples fake samples. Therefore a presentation attack detection PAD method is required to enhance the security level of face recognition systems. Most of the previously proposed PAD methods for face recognition systems have focused on using handcrafted image features which are designed by expert knowledge of designers such as Gabor filter local binary pattern LBP local ternary pattern LTP and histogram of oriented gradients HOG. As a result the extracted features reflect limited aspects of the problem yielding a detection accuracy that is low and varies with the characteristics of presentation attack face images. The deep learning method has been developed in the computer vision research community which is proven to be suitable for automatically training a feature extractor that can be used to enhance the ability of handcrafted features. To overcome the limitations of previously proposed PAD methods we propose a new PAD method that uses a combination of deep and handcrafted features extracted from the images by visible-light camera sensor. Our proposed method uses the convolutional neural network CNN method to extract deep image features and the multi-level local binary pattern MLBP method to extract skin detail features from face images to discriminate the real and presentation attack face images. By combining the two types of image features we form a new type of image features called hybrid features which has stronger discrimination ability than single image features. Finally we use the support vector machine SVM method to classify the image features into real or presentation attack class. Our experimental results indicate that our proposed method outperforms previous PAD methods by yielding the smallest error rates on the same image databases. Combining Deep and Handcrafted Image Features for Presentation Attack Detection in Face Recognition Systems Using Visible-Light Camera Sensors.