"Introduction: The recent developments of magnetic resonance MR based adaptive strategies for photon and potentially for proton therapy require a fast and reliable conversion of MR images to X-ray computed tomography CT values. CT values are needed for photon and proton dose calculation. The improvement of conversion results employing a 3D deep learning approach is evaluated. Material and methods: A database of 89 T1-weighted MR head scans with about 100 slices each including rigidly registered CTs was created. Twenty-eight validation patients were randomly sampled and four patients were selected for application. The remaining patients were used to train a 2D and a 3D U-shaped convolutional neural network Unet. A stack size of 32 slices was used for 3D training. For all application cases volumetric modulated arc therapy photon and single-field uniform dose pencil-beam scanning proton plans at four different gantry angles were optimized for a generic target on the CT and recalculated on 2D and 3D Unet-based pseudoCTs. Mean absolute error MAE/ME and a gradient sharpness estimate were used to quantify the image quality. Three-dimensional gamma and dose difference analyses were performed for photon gamma criteria: 1% 1\u2009mm and proton dose distributions gamma criteria: 2% 2\u2009mm. Range 80% fall off differences for beams eye view profiles were evaluated for protons. Results: Training 36\u2009h for 1000 epochs in 3D 6\u2009h for 200 epochs in 2D yielded a maximum MAE of 147 HU 135 HU for the application patients. Except for one patient gamma pass rates for photon and proton dose distributions were above 96% for both Unets. Slice discontinuities were reduced for 3D training at the cost of sharpness. Conclusions: Image analysis revealed a slight advantage of 2D Unets compared to 3D Unets. Similar dose calculation performance was reached for the 2D and 3D network." Evaluation of proton and photon dose distributions recalculated on 2D and 3D Unet-generated pseudoCTs from T1-weighted MR head scans.