"Mild cognitive impairment MCI is often considered a critical time window for predicting early conversion to Alzheimers disease AD. Brain functional connectome data i.e. functional connections global and nodal graph metrics based on resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging rs-fMRI provides numerous information about brain networks and has been used to discriminate normal controls NCs from subjects with MCI. In this paper Students t-tests and group-least absolute shrinkage and selection operator group-LASSO were used to extract functional connections with significant differences and the most discriminative network nodes respectively. Based on group-LASSO the middle temporal inferior temporal lingual posterior cingulate and middle frontal gyri were the most predominant brain regions for nodal observation in MCI patients. Nodal graph metrics within-module degree participation coefficient and degree centrality showed the maximum discriminative ability. To effectively combine the multipattern information we employed the multiple kernel learning support vector machine MKL-SVM. Combined with functional connectome information the MKL-SVM achieved a good classification performance area under the receiving operating characteristic curve = 0.9728. Additionally the altered brain connectome pattern revealed that functional connectivity was generally decreased in the whole-brain network whereas graph theory topological attributes of some special nodes in the brain network were increased in MCI patients. Our findings demonstrate that optimal feature selection and combination of all connectome features i.e. functional connections global and nodal graph metrics can achieve good performance in discriminating NCs from MCI subjects. Thus the combination of functional connections and global and nodal graph metrics of brain networks can predict the occurrence of MCI and contribute to the early clinical diagnosis of AD." Feature Selection and Combination of Information in the Functional Brain Connectome for Discrimination of Mild Cognitive Impairment and Analyses of Altered Brain Patterns.