Electrocorticography ECoG is becoming a common tool for clinical applications such as preparing patients for epilepsy surgery or localizing tumor boundaries as it successfully balances invasiveness and information quality. Clinical ECoG arrays use millimeter-scale electrodes and centimeter-scale pitch and cannot precisely map neural activity. Higher-resolution electrodes are of interest for both current clinical applications providing access to more precise neural activity localization and novel applications such as neural prosthetics where current information density and spatial resolution is insufficient to suitably decode signals for a chronic brain-machine interface. Developing such electrodes is not trivial because their small contact area increases the electrode impedance which seriously affects the signal-to-noise ratio and adhering such an electrode to the brain surface becomes critical. The most straightforward approach requires increasing the array conformability with flexible substrates while improving the electrode performance using materials with superior electrochemical properties. In this paper we propose an ultra-flexible and conformable polyimide-based micro-ECoG array of submillimeter recording sites electrochemically coated with high surface area conductive polymer-carbon nanotube composites to improve their brain-electrical coupling capabilities. We characterized our devices both electrochemically and by recording from rat somatosensory cortex in vivo. The performance of the coated and uncoated electrodes was directly compared by simultaneously recording the same neuronal activity during multiwhisker deflection stimulation. Finally we assessed the effect of electrode size on the extraction of somatosensory evoked potentials and found that in contrast to the normal high-impedance microelectrodes the recording capabilities of our low-impedance microelectrodes improved upon reducing their size from 0.2 to 0.1 mm. PEDOT-CNT-Coated Low-Impedance Ultra-Flexible and Brain-Conformable Micro-ECoG Arrays.