Virtual reality VR and augmented reality AR are two novel graphics immersive techniques GIT that in the last decade have been attracting the attention of many researchers especially in psychological research. VR can provide 3D real-life synthetic environments in which controllers allow human interaction. AR overlays synthetic elements to the real world and the human gaze to target allow hand gesture to act with synthetic elements. Both techniques are providing more ecologically environments than traditional methods and most of the previous researches on one side have more focused on the use of VR for treatment and assessment showing positive effectiveness results. On the other AR has been proving for the treatment of specific disorders but there are no studies that investigated the feasibility and effectiveness of AR in the neuropsychological assessment. Starting from these premises the present study aimed to compare the performance and sense of presence using both techniques during an ecological task such as cooking. The study included 50 cognitively healthy subjects. The cooking task consisted of four levels that increased in difficulty. As the level increased additional activities appeared. The order of presentation of each exposure condition AR and VR was counterbalanced for each participant. The VR-cooking task has been performed through "HTC/VIVE" and AR through "Microsoft HoloLens." Furthermore the study recorded and compared the psychophysiological changes heart rate and skin conductance response SCR during the cooking task in both conditions. To measure the sense of presence occurring during the two exposure conditions subjects completed the Slater-Usoh-Steed Questionnaire SUSQ and the ITC-Sense of Presence Inventory ITC-SOPI immediately after each condition. The behavioral results showed that times are always lower in VR than in AR increasing constantly in accordance with the difficulty of the tasks. Regarding physiological responses the findings showed that AR condition produced more individual excitement and activation than VR. Finally VR was able to produce higher levels of sense of presence than AR condition. The overall results support that VR currently represents the GIT with greater usability and feasibility compared to AR probably due to the differences in the human-computer interaction between the two techniques. A Virtual Versus an Augmented Reality Cooking Task Based-Tools: A Behavioral and Physiological Study on the Assessment of Executive Functions.