Past research involving cocaine and resting-state functional connectivity RSFC has shown altered functional connectivity within the frontal and between the frontal and other cortical and subcortical brain regions in chronic users of cocaine. However there have been discrepancies in literature regarding the relationship between RSFC between brain regions and cocaine use behavior. This study explored the RSFC between brain regions in cocaine smokers abstinent from cocaine use for 72 h and healthy controls. Also the relationship between RSFC between brain regions and various cocaine use measures cocaine use duration; frequency and money spent on cocaine/week was examined. Twenty chronic cocaine users and 17 controls completed a resting-state scan and an anatomical MPRAGE scan. Group independent component analysis performed on functional magnetic resonance imaging data identified 13 ICs pertaining to distinct resting-state networks and group-level differences were examined. To examine inter-network functional connectivity between brain regions these 13 ICs were divided into 61 distinct regions of interest ROIs. Correlations were calculated between 61 ROI time series. For the ROI pairs that significantly differed from controls in connectivity strength correlations were computed between connectivity strength and cocaine use measures. Results showed an enhanced RSFC within the sensory motor cortex and the left frontal-parietal network in cocaine users than controls. An increased inter-network RSFC between frontal-temporal and frontal-parietal brain regions and a decreased RSFC between parietal-parietal occipital-limbic occipital-occipital and occipital-parietal brain regions was found in cocaine users. This study demonstrated that intra-network connectivity strength of sensory motor cortex was negatively correlated with years of cocaine use. Inter-network connectivity strength between occipital-limbic brain regions was positively correlated with years of cocaine use while connectivity strength within occipital brain regions was negatively related to cocaine use frequency and money spent on cocaine per week in abstinent cocaine users. Altered Functional Connectivity Strength in Abstinent Chronic Cocaine Smokers Compared to Healthy Controls.