Minimal residual disease MRD as measured by multiparameter flow cytometry FCM is an independent and strong prognostic factor in B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia B-ALL. However reliable flow cytometric detection of MRD strongly depends on operator skills and expert knowledge. Hence an objective automated tool for reliable FCM-MRD quantification able to overcome the technical diversity and analytical subjectivity would be most helpful. We developed a supervised machine learning approach using a combination of multiple Gaussian Mixture Models GMM as a parametric density model. The approach was used for finding the weights of a linear combination of multiple GMMs to represent new "unseen" samples by an interpolation of stored samples. The experimental data set contained FCM-MRD data of 337 bone marrow samples collected at day 15 of induction therapy in three different laboratories from pediatric patients with B-ALL for which accurate expert-set gates existed. We compared MRD quantification by our proposed GMM approach to operator assessments its performance on data from different laboratories as well as to other state-of-the-art automated read-out methods. Our proposed GMM-combination approach proved superior over support vector machines deep neural networks and a single GMM approach in terms of precision and average F 1 -scores. A high correlation of expert operator-based and automated MRD assessment was achieved with reliable automated MRD quantification F 1 -scores >0.5 in more than 95% of samples in the clinically relevant range. Although best performance was found if test and training samples were from the same system i.e. flow cytometer and staining panel; lowest median F 1 -score 0.92 cross-system performance remained high with a median F 1 -score above 0.85 in all settings. In conclusion our proposed automated approach could potentially be used to assess FCM-MRD in B-ALL in an objective and standardized manner across different laboratories. Automated Flow Cytometric MRD Assessment in Childhood Acute B- Lymphoblastic Leukemia Using Supervised Machine Learning.