"Parkinsons disease PD is the second most common neurodegenerative disease affecting millions worldwide. Bespoke subject-specific treatment medication or deep brain stimulation DBS is critical for management yet depends on precise assessment cardinal PD symptoms -bradykinesia rigidity and tremor. Clinician diagnosis is the basis of treatment yet it allows only a cross-sectional assessment of symptoms which can vary on an hourly basis and is liable to inter-and intra-rater subjectivity across human examiners. Automated symptomatic assessment has attracted significant interest to optimise treatment regimens between clinician visits however no wearable has the capacity to simultaneously assess all three cardinal symptoms. Challenges in the measurement of rigidity mapping muscle activity out-of-clinic and sensor fusion have inhibited translation. In this study we address all through a novel wearable sensor system and learning algorithms. The sensor system is composed of a force-sensor three inertial measurement units IMUs and four custom mechanomyography MMG sensors. The system was tested in its capacity to predict Unified Parkinsons Disease Rating Scale UPDRS scores based on quantitative assessment of bradykinesia rigidity and tremor in PD patients. 23 PD patients were tested with the sensor system in parallel with exams conducted by treating clinicians and 10 healthy subjects were recruited as a comparison control group. Results prove the system accurately predicts UPDRS scores for all symptoms 85.4% match on average with physician assessment and discriminates between healthy subjects and PD patients 96.6% on average. MMG features can also be used for remote monitoring of severity and fluctuations in PD symptoms out-of-clinic. This closed-loop feedback system enables individually tailored and regularly updated treatment facilitating better outcomes for a very large patient population." "A Heterogeneous Sensing Suite for Multisymptom Quantification of Parkinsons Disease."