A resurgence has taken place in recent years in the use of the extracellularly recorded local field potential LFP to investigate neural network activity. To probe monosynaptic thalamic activation of cortical postsynaptic target cells so called spike-trigger-averaged LFP stLFP signatures have been measured. In these experiments the cortical LFP is measured by multielectrodes covering several cortical lamina and averaged on spontaneous spikes of thalamocortical TC cells. Using a well established forward-modeling scheme we investigated the biophysical origin of this stLFP signature with simultaneous synaptic activation of cortical layer-4 neurons mimicking the effect of a single afferent spike from a single TC neuron. Constrained by previously measured intracellular responses of the main postsynaptic target cell types and with biologically plausible assumptions regarding the spatial distribution of thalamic synaptic inputs into layer 4 the model predicted characteristic contributions to monosynaptic stLFP signatures both for the regular-spiking RS excitatory neurons and the fast-spiking FS inhibitory interneurons. In particular the FS cells generated stLFP signatures of shorter temporal duration than the RS cells. Added together a sum of the stLFP signatures of these two principal synaptic targets of TC cells were observed to resemble experimentally measured stLFP signatures. Outside the volume targeted by TC afferents the resulting postsynaptic LFP signals were found to be sharply attenuated. This implies that such stLFP signatures provide a very local measure of TC synaptic activation and that newly developed inverse current-source density CSD-estimation methods are needed for precise assessment of the underlying spatiotemporal CSD profiles.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT Despite its long history and prevalent use the proper interpretation of the extracellularly recorded local field potential LFP is still not fully established. Here we investigate by biophysical modeling the origin of the focal LFP signature of the single-axon monosynaptic thalamocortical connection as measured by spike-trigger-averaging of cortical LFPs on spontaneous spikes of thalamocortical neurons. We find that this LFP signature is well accounted for by a model assuming thalamic projections to two cortical layer-4 cell populations: one excitatory putatively regular-spiking cells and one inhibitory putatively fast-spiking cells. The LFP signature is observed to decay sharply outside the cortical region receiving the thalamocortical projection implying that it indeed provides a very local measure of thalamocortical synaptic activation. Focal Local Field Potential Signature of the Single-Axon Monosynaptic Thalamocortical Connection.