Humans are capable of complex manipulation interactions with the environment relying on the intrinsic adaptability and compliance of their hands. Recently soft robotic manipulation has attempted to reproduce such an extraordinary behavior through the design of deformable yet robust end-effectors. To this goal the investigation of human behavior has become crucial to correctly inform technological developments of robotic hands that can successfully exploit environmental constraint as humans actually do. Among the different tools robotics can leverage on to achieve this objective deep learning has emerged as a promising approach for the study and then the implementation of neuro-scientific observations on the artificial side. However current approaches tend to neglect the dynamic nature of hand pose recognition problems limiting the effectiveness of these techniques in identifying sequences of manipulation primitives underpinning action generation e.g. during purposeful interaction with the environment. In this work we propose a vision-based supervised Hand Pose Recognition method which for the first time takes into account temporal information to identify meaningful sequences of actions in grasping and manipulation tasks. More specifically we apply Deep Neural Networks to automatically learn features from hand posture images that consist of frames extracted from grasping and manipulation task videos with objects and external environmental constraints. For training purposes videos are divided into intervals each associated to a specific action by a human supervisor. The proposed algorithm combines a Convolutional Neural Network to detect the hand within each video frame and a Recurrent Neural Network to predict the hand action in the current frame while taking into consideration the history of actions performed in the previous frames. Experimental validation has been performed on two datasets of dynamic hand-centric strategies where subjects regularly interact with objects and environment. Proposed architecture achieved a very good classification accuracy on both datasets reaching performance up to 94% and outperforming state of the art techniques. The outcomes of this study can be successfully applied to robotics e.g. for planning and control of soft anthropomorphic manipulators. DeepDynamicHand: A Deep Neural Architecture for Labeling Hand Manipulation Strategies in Video Sources Exploiting Temporal Information.