"The cortical dorsal attention network DAN is a set of parietal and frontal regions that support a wide variety of attentionally demanding tasks. Whereas attentional deployment reliably drives DAN activity across subjects there is a large degree of variation in the activation pattern in individual subjects. We hypothesize that a subjects own idiosyncratic pattern of cortical DAN activity can be predicted from that subjects own unique pattern of functional connectivity. By modeling task activation as a function of whole brain connectivity patterns we are able to define the connectivity fingerprints for the frontal and parietal DAN and use it to predict a subjects characteristic DAN activation pattern with high accuracy. These predictions outperform the standard group-average benchmark and predict a subjects own activation pattern above and beyond predictions from another subjects connectivity pattern. Thus an individuals distinctive connectivity pattern accounts for substantial variance in DAN functional responses. Last we show that the set of connections that predict cortical DAN responses the frontal and parietal DAN connectivity fingerprints is predominantly composed of other coactive regions including regions outside of the DAN including occipital and temporal visual cortices. These connectivity fingerprints represent defining computational characteristics of the DAN delineating which voxels are or are not capable of exerting top-down attentional bias to other regions of the brain. NEW & NOTEWORTHY The dorsal attention network DAN is a set of regions in frontoparietal cortex that reliably activate during attentional tasks. We designed computational models that predict the degree of an individuals DAN activation using their resting-state connectivity pattern alone. This uncovered the connectivity fingerprints of the DAN which define it so well that we can predict how a voxel will respond to an attentional task given only its pattern of connectivity with outstanding accuracy." "Predicting an individuals dorsal attention network activity from functional connectivity fingerprints."