When Richard Morris devised his water maze in 19817 most behavioral work was done in rats. However the greater understanding of mouse genetics led to the mouse becoming increasingly important. But researchers found that some strains of mutant mice were prone to problems like passively floating or diving when they were tested in the Morris water maze11. This was unsurprising considering their natural habitat; rats swim naturally classically the "sewer rat" whereas mice evolved in the dry areas of central Asia. To overcome these problems it was considered whether shallow water would be a sufficient stimulus to provide escape motivation for mice. This would also avoid the problems of drying the small creatures with a towel and then putting them in a heated recovery chamber to avoid hypothermia which is a much more serious problem than with rats; the large ratio of surface area to volume of a mouse makes it particularly vulnerable to rapid heat loss. Another consideration was whether a more natural escape strategy could be used to facilitate learning. Since animals that fall into water and swim away from the safety of the shore are unlikely to pass on their genes animals have evolved a natural tendency to swim to the edge of a body of water. The Morris water maze however requires them to swim to a hidden platform towards the center of the maze - exactly opposite to their evolved behavior. Therefore the paddling maze should incorporate escape to the edge of the apparatus. This feature coupled with the use of relatively non-aversive shallow water embodies the "Refinement" aspect of the "3 Rs" of Russell and Burch8. Various types of maze design were tried; the common feature was that the water was always shallow 2 cm deep and escape was via a tube piercing the transparent wall of the apparatus. Other tubes "false exits" were also placed around the walls but these were blocked off. From the inside of the maze all false exits and the single true exit looked the same. Currently a dodecagonal 12-sided maze is in use in Oxford with 12 true/false exits set in the corners. In a recent development a transparent paddling Y-maze has been tested successfully. Shallow water paddling variants of water maze tests in mice.