Epilepsy related to malformations of cortical development is frequently drug resistant or requires heavy medication therefore surgery is key in their management. The role of stereotactic surgery has recently changed the diagnosis and treatment of focal cortical dysplasias FCD hypothalamic hamartomas HH and periventricular nodular heterotopias PNH. In HH radiosurgery using Gammaknife leads to 60\xa0% of seizure control and is associated with excellent neuropsychological results without significant endocrine function impairment. The seizure control rate is even higher more than 80\xa0% with monopolar multiple stereotactic thermocoagulations and Laser interstitial Thermal Therapy LiTT. While the first technique is associated with a 2\xa0% complications rate but with excellent neuropsychological outcomes the latest has up to 22\xa0% side effects in some series. All three of these techniques have encouraging results but controlled studies are still lacking to provide evidence-based new therapeutic algorithms. With regard to the PNH surgical management has long been limited by the depth of the lesions and their close anatomical relations with the functional brain connectome. Stereotactic approaches required to perform a SEEG to locate the part of the PNH responsible for the seizure onset are later followed by a stereotactic lesioning procedure therefore doubling the bleeding risk. That is why SEEG-guided radiofrequency-thermocoagulation SEEG guided-RF-TC which makes it possible to perform these two steps in a single procedure was considered as a promising option. A recent meta-analysis confirmed this intuition and reported 38\xa0% of seizure-free patients and 81\xa0% of responders with only 0.3\xa0% of complications making this approach the first treatment line followed by LiTT. Among the multiple advances in the FCD identification by non-invasive investigations a new modality of per-operative diagnostic procedure the three-dimensional electrocorticography may lead to simplify the preoperative investigation and enhance the accuracy of FCD delineation. Evidence is nevertheless still insufficient to validate this promising concept. Conventional surgical resection has also been concerned by significant conceptual advances during the past few years in particular with the development of the hodotopic approach initially in oncologic surgery. Associated with a better understanding of neuroplasticity in epilepsy and the setting up of functional mapping during SEEG or during awake surgery the possibility of surgical resections grew up. A short-term perspective in this field when surgical resection remains impossible would be to target crucial nodes of the epileptic network distinct from the core functional connectome. Malformations of cortical development: New surgical advances.