Prior neuroimaging studies have reported white matter network underconnectivity as a potential mechanism for autism spectrum disorder ASD. In this study we examined the structural connectome of children with ASD using edge density imaging EDI and then applied machine-learning algorithms to identify children with ASD based on tract-based connectivity metrics. Boys aged 8-12 years were included: 14 with ASD and 33 typically developing children. The edge density ED maps were computed from probabilistic streamline tractography applied to high angular resolution diffusion imaging. Tract-based spatial statistics was used for voxel-wise comparison and coregistration of ED maps in addition to conventional diffusion tensor imaging DTI metrics of fractional anisotropy FA mean diffusivity MD and radial diffusivity RD. Tract-based average DTI/connectome metrics were calculated and used as input for different machine-learning models: nave Bayes random forest support vector machines SVMs and neural networks. For these models cross-validation was performed with stratified random sampling \u2009\u20091000 permutations. The average accuracy among validation samples was calculated. In voxel-wise analysis the body and splenium of corpus callosum bilateral superior and posterior corona radiata and left superior longitudinal fasciculus showed significantly lower ED in children with ASD; whereas we could not find significant difference in FA MD and RD maps between the two study groups. Overall machine-learning models using tract-based ED metrics had better performance in identification of children with ASD compared with those using FA MD and RD. The EDI-based random forest models had greater average accuracy 75.3% specificity 97.0% and positive predictive value 81.5% whereas EDI-based polynomial SVM had greater sensitivity 51.4% and negative predictive values 77.7%. In conclusion we found reduced density of connectome edges in the posterior white matter tracts of children with ASD and demonstrated the feasibility of connectome-based machine-learning algorithms in identification of children with ASD. White Matter Connectome Edge Density in Children with Autism Spectrum Disorders: Potential Imaging Biomarkers Using Machine-Learning Models.