"Motor imagery is based on the volitional modulation of sensorimotor rhythms SMRs; however the sensorimotor processes in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ALS are impaired leading to degenerated motor imagery ability. Thus motor imagery classification in ALS patients has been considered challenging in the brain-computer interface BCI community. In this study we address this critical issue by introducing the Grassberger-Procaccia and Higuchis methods to estimate the fractal dimensions GPFD and HFD respectively of the electroencephalography EEG signals from ALS patients. Moreover a Fishers criterion-based channel selection strategy is proposed to automatically determine the best patient-dependent channel configuration from 30 EEG recording sites. An EEG data collection paradigm is designed to collect the EEG signal of resting state and the imagination of three movements including right hand grasping RH left hand grasping LH and left foot stepping LF. Five late-stage ALS patients without receiving any SMR training participated in this study. Experimental results show that the proposed GPFD feature is not only superior to the previously-used SMR features mu and beta band powers of EEG from sensorimotor cortex but also better than HFD. The accuracies achieved by the SMR features are not satisfactory all lower than 80% in all binary classification tasks including RH imagery vs. resting LH imagery vs. resting and LF imagery vs. resting. For the discrimination between RH imagery and resting the average accuracies of GPFD in 30-channel without channel selection and top-five-channel configurations are 95.25% and 93.50% respectively. When using only one channel the best channel among the 30 a high accuracy of 91.00% can still be achieved by the GPFD feature and a linear discriminant analysis LDA classifier. The results also demonstrate that the proposed Fishers criterion-based channel selection is capable of removing a large amount of redundant and noisy EEG channels. The proposed GPFD feature extraction combined with the channel selection strategy can be used as the basis for further developing high-accuracy and high-usability motor imagery BCI systems from which the patients with ALS can really benefit." "Motor Imagery EEG Classification for Patients with Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis Using Fractal Dimension and Fishers Criterion-Based Channel Selection."