Recent studies suggest that neurodegenerative diseases could affect brain structure and function in disease-specific network patterns; however how spontaneous activity affects structural covariance network SC is not clear. We hypothesized that hyper-excitability in Huntington disease HD disrupts the coordinated structural and functional connectivity and treatment with memantine helps to reduce excitotoxicity and normalize the connectivity. MRI was conducted to measure somatosensory activation resting-state functional-connectivity rsFC SC amplitude of low frequency fluctuation ALFF and ALFF covariance ALFFC in the YAC128 mouse model of HD. We found somatosensory activation was unchanged but the subcortical ALFF was increased in HD mice indicating subcortical but not cortical hyperactivity. The reduced sensorimotor rsFC but spared hippocampal and default mode networks in the HD mice was consistent with the more pronounced impairment in motor function compared with cognitive performance. The disease suppressed SC globally and reduced ALFFC in the basal ganglia network as well as its anti-correlation with the default mode network. By comparing these connectivity measures we found that the originally coupled rsFC-SC relationship was impaired whereas SC-ALFFC correlation was increased by HD suggesting disease facilitated covariation of brain volume and activity amplitude but not neural synchrony. The comparison with mono-synaptic axonal projection supports the hypothesis that rsFC but not SC or ALFFC is highly dependent on structural connectivity under healthy conditions. Treatment with memantine had a strong effect on normalizing the SC and reducing ALFF while slightly increasing other connectivity measures and restoring the rsFC-SC coupling which is consistent with its effect on alleviating hyper-excitability and improving the coordinated neural growth. These results indicate that HD affects the cerebral structure-function relationship which could be partially reverted by NMDA antagonism. These connectivity measures provide unique insights into pathological and pharmaceutical effects in brain circuitry and could be translatable biomarkers for evaluating drug effect and refining its efficacy. Connectomic imaging reveals Huntington-related pathological and pharmaceutical effects in a mouse model.