State-dependent activity of locus ceruleus LC neurons has long suggested a role for noradrenergic modulation of arousal. However in vivo insights into noradrenergic arousal circuitry have been constrained by the fundamental inaccessibility of the human brain for invasive studies. Functional magnetic resonance imaging fMRI studies performed during site-specific pharmacological manipulations of arousal levels may be used to study brain arousal circuitry. Dexmedetomidine is an anesthetic that alters the level of arousal by selectively targeting 2 adrenergic receptors on LC neurons resulting in reduced firing rate and norepinephrine release. Thus we hypothesized that dexmedetomidine-induced altered arousal would manifest with reduced functional connectivity between the LC and key brain regions involved in the regulation of arousal. To test this hypothesis we acquired resting-state fMRI data in right-handed healthy volunteers 18-36 years of age n = 15 6 males at baseline during dexmedetomidine-induced altered arousal and recovery states. As previously reported seed-based resting-state fMRI analyses revealed that the LC was functionally connected to a broad network of regions including the reticular formation basal ganglia thalamus posterior cingulate cortex PCC precuneus and cerebellum. Functional connectivity of the LC to only a subset of these regions PCC thalamus and caudate nucleus covaried with the level of arousal. Functional connectivity of the PCC to the ventral tegmental area/pontine reticular formation and thalamus in addition to the LC also covaried with the level of arousal. We propose a framework in which the LC PCC thalamus and basal ganglia comprise a functional arousal circuitry.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT Electrophysiological studies of locus ceruleus LC neurons have long suggested a role for noradrenergic mechanisms in mediating arousal. However the fundamental inaccessibility of the human brain for invasive studies has limited a precise understanding of putative brain regions that integrate with the LC to regulate arousal. Our results suggest that the PCC thalamus and basal ganglia are key components of a LC-noradrenergic arousal circuit. Pharmacological Modulation of Noradrenergic Arousal Circuitry Disrupts Functional Connectivity of the Locus Ceruleus in Humans.