Brain tumors can appear anywhere in the brain and have vastly different sizes and morphology. Additionally these tumors are often diffused and poorly contrasted. Consequently the segmentation of brain tumor and intratumor subregions using magnetic resonance imaging MRI data with minimal human interventions remains a challenging task. In this paper we present a novel fully automatic segmentation method from MRI data containing in vivo brain gliomas. This approach can not only localize the entire tumor region but can also accurately segment the intratumor structure. The proposed work was based on a cascaded deep learning convolutional neural network consisting of two subnetworks: 1 a tumor localization network TLN and 2 an intratumor classification network ITCN. The TLN a fully convolutional network FCN in conjunction with the transfer learning technology was used to first process MRI data. The goal of the first subnetwork was to define the tumor region from an MRI slice. Then the ITCN was used to label the defined tumor region into multiple subregions. Particularly ITCN exploited a convolutional neural network CNN with deeper architecture and smaller kernel. The proposed approach was validated on multimodal brain tumor segmentation BRATS 2015 datasets which contain 220 high-grade glioma HGG and 54 low-grade glioma LGG cases. Dice similarity coefficient DSC positive predictive value PPV and sensitivity were used as evaluation metrics. Our experimental results indicated that our method could obtain the promising segmentation results and had a faster segmentation speed. More specifically the proposed method obtained comparable and overall better DSC values 0.89 0.77 and 0.80 on the combined HGG\u2009+\u2009LGG testing set as compared to other methods reported in the literature. Additionally the proposed approach was able to complete a segmentation task at a rate of 1.54 seconds per slice. Automatic Semantic Segmentation of Brain Gliomas from MRI Images Using a Deep Cascaded Neural Network.