Infantile onset Pompe disease IOPD is a rare and lethal genetic disorder caused by the deletion of the acid alpha-glucosidase GAA gene. This gene encodes an essential lysosomal enzyme that converts glycogen to glucose. While enzyme replacement therapy helps some our understanding of disease pathophysiology is limited. In this project we develop computer simulated stem cells aiPSC and differentiated skeletal muscle cells aiSkMC to empower IOPD research and drug discovery. Our Artificial Intelligence AI platform DeepNEU v3.6 was used to generate aiPSC and aiSkMC simulations with and without GAA expression. These simulations were validated using peer reviewed results from the recent literature. Once the aiSkMC simulations IOPD and WT were validated they were used to evaluate calcium homeostasis and mitochondrial function in IOPD. Lastly we used aiSkMC IOPD simulations to identify known and novel biomarkers and potential therapeutic targets. The aiSkMC simulations of IOPD correctly predicted genotypic and phenotypic features that were reported in recent literature. The probability that these features were accurately predicted by chance alone using the binomial test is 0.0025. The aiSkMC IOPD simulation correctly identified L-type calcium channels VDCC as a biomarker and confirmed the positive effects of calcium channel blockade CCB on calcium homeostasis and mitochondrial function. These published data were extended by the aiSkMC simulations to identify calpains as a novel potential biomarker and therapeutic target for IOPD. This is the first time that computer simulations of iPSC and differentiated skeletal muscle cells have been used to study IOPD. The simulations are robust and accurate based on available published literature. We also demonstrated that the IOPD simulations can be used for potential biomarker identification leading to targeted drug discovery. We will continue to explore the potential for calpain inhibitors with and without CCB as effective therapy for IOPD. DeepNEU: Artificially Induced Stem Cell aiPSC and Differentiated Skeletal Muscle Cell aiSkMC Simulations of Infantile Onset POMPE Disease IOPD for Potential Biomarker Identification and Drug Discovery.