Purpose: To advance knowledge of specific usability criteria for Geospatial Assistive Technologies GATs and manual wheelchair users and to develop a profile and expectations for potential future users. Method: A face-to-face cross-sectional study was conducted with 17 community-dwelling manual wheelchair users aged 18-45\u2009years who use a mobile device. A semi-structured interview was conducted as follows: 1 four video clips presenting technologies related to GATs applications on a smartphone or smart watch augmented reality glasses virtual reality helmet were shown; 2 questions were asked about the perceived advantages and disadvantages of route planning prior to travel and navigation while receiving guidance in urban areas; and 3 an activity to rank fifteen defined usability criteria by importance was conducted. Two questionnaires were also self-administered: the Temple University Community Participation Measure and the Wheelchair Use Confidence Scale for Manual Wheelchair Users WheelCon. Results: This study defines a comprehensive sample profile of manual wheelchair users with GAT and 19 distinctive usability criteria for GATs specifically suited to manual wheelchair users. Fifteen criteria were identified as the most important actual use appearance Bluetooth comfort dimensions ease of use efficiency familiarity features hands-free operation information content quality of information and transportability. Information content and transportability demand higher expectations while the emerging Bluetooth and free-hands criteria are associated with transportability. Conclusion: The results obtained using a user-centric approach yielded useful data to improve GATs and broaden the concept of compatibility among users and specific-use situations to ensure usability. Implications for rehabilitation \u2003For manual wheelchair users paired with a geospatial assistance technology: \u2003The smart phone is preferred compared to the smart watch augmented reality glasses or virtual reality helmet for both plan and navigation tasks. Actual use comfort ease of use familiarity features and informative content are important criteria and the smart phone as mobile device for GATs is perceived favourably to meet the requirements coming up with these criteria. \u2003Especially suitable for guidance and manual wheelchair navigation double-task two emergent criteria emerge regarding the usability of GATs: hands-free and Bluetooth. Hands-free is associated with potential usability issues regarding smart phone transportability and to the relevance of augmented reality glasses or smart watches as mobile device for GATs. The Bluetooth connexion appears as being part of the solution for increasing the transportability of any of these mobile devices. \u2003Appearance and dimension of GATs their efficiency for planning and navigating and the quality of the delivered information are other important usability criteria. \u2003Since information content and transportability are targeted as the two most important criteria we should pay special attention in the future to the availability of information about accessibility of destinations and also to appropriate fixation and Bluetooth systems ensuring partially or completely hands-free operation in order to meet user needs. Geospatial assistive technologies: potential usability criteria identified from manual wheelchair users.