"The vestibular end-organs encode for linear and angular head accelerations in space contributing to our internal representation of self-motion. Activation of the vestibular system with transmastoid electrical current has recently grown in popularity; however a direct relationship between electrically evoked and mechanically evoked vestibular responses remains elusive in humans. We have developed and tested a mechanical-to-electrical vestibular stimulus conversion model incorporating physiological activation of primary vestibular afferents identified in nonhuman primates. We compared ocular torsional responses between mechanical chair rotation and model-derived electrical binaural-bipolar stimuli in separate experiments for an angular velocity step change 10 deg/s over 1 s\u20094-mA peak amplitude; n = 10 and multisine angular velocities 10 deg/s 9.7 mA peak to peak 0.05-1 Hz; n = 5 respectively. Perception of whole body rotation n = 18 to our step-change stimuli was also evaluated. Ocular torsional slow-phase velocity responses between stimulation types were similar paired two one-sided tests of equivalence: multiple P < 0.002; one-sample t test: P = 0.178 and correlated Pearsons coefficient: multiple P < 0.001. Bootstrap analysis of perceived angular velocity likewise showed similarity in perceptual decay dynamics. These data suggest that central processing between stimuli was similar and our vestibular stimulus conversion model with a conversion factor of 0.4 mA per deg/s for an angular velocity step change can generate electrical stimuli that replicates dynamic vestibular activation elicited by mechanical whole body rotations. This proposed vestibular conversion model represents an initial framework for using electrical stimuli to generate mechanically equivalent activation of primary vestibular afferents for use in biomedical applications and immersive reality technologies.NEW & NOTEWORTHY With the growing popularity of electrical vestibular stimulation in biomedical and immersive reality applications a direct conversion model between electrical and mechanical vestibular stimuli is needed. We developed a model to generate electrical stimuli mimicking the physiological activation of vestibular afferents evoked by mechanical rotations. Ocular and perceptual responses evoked by mechanical and model-derived electrical stimuli were similar thus providing a critical first step toward generation of electrically induced vestibular responses that have a realistic mechanical equivalent." Development of a conversion model between mechanical and electrical vestibular stimuli.