"Epicardial adipose tissue EAT is a visceral fat deposit thats known for its association with factors such as obesity diabetes mellitus age and hypertension. Segmentation of the EAT in a fast and reproducible way is important for the interpretation of its role as an independent risk marker intricate. However EAT has a variable distribution and various diseases may affect the volume of the EAT which can increase the complexity of the already time-consuming manual segmentation work. We propose a 3D deep attention U-Net method to automatically segment the EAT from coronary computed tomography angiography CCTA. Five-fold cross-validation and hold-out experiments were used to evaluate the proposed method through a retrospective investigation of 200 patients. The automatically segmented EAT volume was compared with physician-approved clinical contours. Quantitative metrics used were the Dice similarity coefficient DSC sensitivity specificity Jaccard index JAC Hausdorff distance HD mean surface distance MSD residual mean square distance RMSD and the center of mass distance CMD. For cross-validation the median DSC sensitivity and specificity were 92.7% 91.1% and 95.1% respectively with JAC HD CMD MSD and RMSD are 82.9%  8.8% 3.77  1.86mm 1.98  1.50mm 0.37  0.24mm and 0.65  0.37mm respectively. For the hold-out test the accuracy of the proposed method remained high. We developed a novel deep learning-based approach for the automated segmentation of the EAT on CCTA images. We demonstrated the high accuracy of the proposed learning-based segmentation method through comparison with ground truth contour of 200 clinical patient cases using 8 quantitative metrics Pearson correlation and Bland-Altman analysis. Our automatic EAT segmentation results show the potential of the proposed method to be used in computer-aided diagnosis of coronary artery diseases CADs in clinical settings." Automatic segmentation and quantification of epicardial adipose tissue from coronary computed tomography angiography.