Deep neural networks have achieved impressive successes in fields ranging from object recognition to complex games such as Go12. Navigation however remains a substantial challenge for artificial agents with deep neural networks trained by reinforcement learning3-5 failing to rival the proficiency of mammalian spatial behaviour which is underpinned by grid cells in the entorhinal cortex 6 . Grid cells are thought to provide a multi-scale periodic representation that functions as a metric for coding space78 and is critical for integrating self-motion path integration679 and planning direct trajectories to goals vector-based navigation71011. Here we set out to leverage the computational functions of grid cells to develop a deep reinforcement learning agent with mammal-like navigational abilities. We first trained a recurrent network to perform path integration leading to the emergence of representations resembling grid cells as well as other entorhinal cell types 12 . We then showed that this representation provided an effective basis for an agent to locate goals in challenging unfamiliar and changeable environments-optimizing the primary objective of navigation through deep reinforcement learning. The performance of agents endowed with grid-like representations surpassed that of an expert human and comparison agents with the metric quantities necessary for vector-based navigation derived from grid-like units within the network. Furthermore grid-like representations enabled agents to conduct shortcut behaviours reminiscent of those performed by mammals. Our findings show that emergent grid-like representations furnish agents with a Euclidean spatial metric and associated vector operations providing a foundation for proficient navigation. As such our results support neuroscientific theories that see grid cells as critical for vector-based navigation71011 demonstrating that the latter can be combined with path-based strategies to support navigation in challenging environments. Vector-based navigation using grid-like representations in artificial agents.