Purpose To investigate the functional connectome alterations in benign epilepsy with centrotemporal spikes with respect to the occurrence of interictal epileptic discharges IEDs during functional magnetic resonance MR imaging. Materials and Methods This prospective study was approved by the local institutional review board and was HIPAA compliant. All participants were consecutively enrolled with written informed consent. Forty-three right-handed patients were classified into IED n = 20 13 girls and seven boys; mean age  standard deviation 9.00 years  1.95 and non-IED n = 23 11 girls and 12 boys; mean age 10.22 years  2.13 groups on the basis of electroencephalographic data simultaneously recorded during resting-state functional MR imaging at 3.0 T. The functional connectome features estimated with graph theoretical analysis in patient groups and control subjects who were matched for sex age and education level n = 28 all right-handed 13 girls and 15 boys; mean age 10.00 years  2.31 were compared by using one-way analysis of variance. Results Patients with IEDs and those without IEDs showed consistently abnormal global topology in their functional networks ie decreased global efficiency; P < .05 relative to that of control subjects with no differences between the two patient groups P > .05. Decreased regional efficiency and connectivity strength were observed in the patients with IEDs and those without mainly in the perirolandic and frontal areas relative to control subjects P < .05. Moreover the altered functional features significantly correlated with clinical characteristics ie disease duration and age at symptom onset P < .05. Conclusion These findings suggest that decreased global and regional efficiency are prominent functional deficits in children with benign epilepsy with centrotemporal spikes and can be readily identified with resting-state functional MR imaging irrespective of IEDs.  RSNA 2016 Online supplemental material is available for this article. Decreased Network Efficiency in Benign Epilepsy with Centrotemporal Spikes.