Corticostriatal circuits through the orbitofrontal cortex OFC play key roles in complex human behaviors such as evaluation affect regulation and reward-based decision-making. Importantly the medial and lateral OFC mOFC and lOFC circuits have functionally and anatomically distinct connectivity profiles which differentially contribute to the various aspects of goal-directed behavior. OFC corticostriatal circuits have been consistently implicated across a wide range of psychiatric disorders including major depressive disorder MDD obsessive compulsive disorder OCD and substance use disorders SUDs. Furthermore psychiatric disorders related to OFC corticostriatal dysfunction can be addressed via conventional and novel neurostimulatory techniques including deep brain stimulation DBS electroconvulsive therapy ECT repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation rTMS and transcranial direct current stimulation tDCS. Such techniques elicit changes in OFC corticostriatal activity resulting in changes in clinical symptomatology. Here we review the available literature regarding how disturbances in mOFC and lOFC corticostriatal functioning may lead to psychiatric symptomatology in the aforementioned disorders and how psychiatric treatments may exert their therapeutic effect by rectifying abnormal OFC corticostriatal activity. First we review the role of OFC corticostriatal circuits in reward-guided learning decision-making affect regulation and reappraisal. Second we discuss the role of OFC corticostriatal circuit dysfunction across a wide range of psychiatric disorders. Third we review available evidence that the therapeutic mechanisms of various neuromodulation techniques may directly involve rectifying abnormal activity in mOFC and lOFC corticostriatal circuits. Finally we examine the potential of future applications of therapeutic brain stimulation targeted at OFC circuitry; specifically the role of OFC brain stimulation in the growing field of individually-tailored therapies and personalized medicine in psychiatry. Cortico-Striatal-Thalamic Loop Circuits of the Orbitofrontal Cortex: Promising Therapeutic Targets in Psychiatric Illness.