The parahippocampal place area PPA is a widely studied high-level visual region in the human brain involved in place and scene processing. The goal of the present study was to identify the most probable location of place-selective voxels in medial ventral temporal cortex. To achieve this goal we first used cortex-based alignment CBA to create a probabilistic place-selective region of interest ROI from one group of 12 participants. We then tested how well this ROI could predict place selectivity in each hemisphere within a new group of 12 participants. Our results reveal that a probabilistic ROI pROI generated from one group of 12 participants accurately predicts the location and functional selectivity in individual brains from a new group of 12 participants despite between subject variability in the exact location of place-selective voxels relative to the folding of parahippocampal cortex. Additionally the prediction accuracy of our pROI is significantly higher than that achieved by volume-based Talairach alignment. Comparing the location of the pROI of the PPA relative to published data from over 500 participants including data from the Human Connectome Project shows a striking convergence of the predicted location of the PPA and the cortical location of voxels exhibiting the highest place selectivity across studies using various methods and stimuli. Specifically the most predictive anatomical location of voxels exhibiting the highest place selectivity in medial ventral temporal cortex is the junction of the collateral and anterior lingual sulci. Methodologically we make this pROI freely available vpnl.stanford.edu/PlaceSelectivity which provides a means to accurately identify a functional region from anatomical MRI data when fMRI data are not available for example in patient populations. Theoretically we consider different anatomical and functional factors that may contribute to the consistent anatomical location of place selectivity relative to the folding of high-level visual cortex. Defining the most probable location of the parahippocampal place area using cortex-based alignment and cross-validation.