"The inferior olivary nuclei clearly play a role in creating oculopalatal tremor but the exact mechanism is unknown. Oculopalatal tremor develops some time after a lesion in the brain that interrupts inhibition of the inferior olive by the deep cerebellar nuclei. Over time the inferior olive gradually becomes hypertrophic and its neurons enlarge developing abnormal soma-somatic gap junctions. However results from several experimental studies have confounded the issue because they seem inconsistent with a role for the inferior olive in oculopalatal tremor or because they ascribe the tremor to other brain areas. Here we look at 3D binocular eye movements in 15 oculopalatal tremor patients and compare their behaviour to the output of our recent mathematical model of oculopalatal tremor. This model has two mechanisms that interact to create oculopalatal tremor: an oscillator in the inferior olive and a modulator in the cerebellum. Here we show that this dual mechanism model can reproduce the basic features of oculopalatal tremor and plausibly refute the confounding experimental results. Oscillations in all patients and simulations were aperiodic with a complicated frequency spectrum showing dominant components from 1 to 3 Hz. The models synchronized inferior olive output was too small to induce noticeable ocular oscillations requiring amplification by the cerebellar cortex. Simulations show that reducing the influence of the cerebellar cortex on the oculomotor pathway reduces the amplitude of ocular tremor makes it more periodic and pulse-like but leaves its frequency unchanged. Reducing the coupling among cells in the inferior olive decreases the oscillations amplitude until they stop at approximately 20% of full coupling strength but does not change their frequency. The dual-mechanism model accounts for many of the properties of oculopalatal tremor. Simulations suggest that drug therapies designed to reduce electrotonic coupling within the inferior olive or reduce the disinhibition of the cerebellar cortex on the deep cerebellar nuclei could treat oculopalatal tremor. We conclude that oculopalatal tremor oscillations originate in the hypertrophic inferior olive and are amplified by learning in the cerebellum." Oculopalatal tremor explained by a model of inferior olivary hypertrophy and cerebellar plasticity.