Brain-Computer Interfaces BCIs that convert brain-recorded neural signals into intended movement commands could eventually be combined with Functional Electrical Stimulation to allow individuals with Spinal Cord Injury to regain effective and intuitive control of their paralyzed limbs. To accelerate the development of such an approach we developed a model of closed-loop BCI control of arm movements that 1 generates realistic arm movements based on experimentally measured visually-guided movements with real-time error correction 2 simulates cortical neurons with firing properties consistent with literature reports and 3 decodes intended movements from the noisy neural ensemble. With this model we explored 1 the relative utility of neurons tuned for different movement parameters position velocity and goal and 2 the utility of recording from larger numbers of neurons-critical issues for technology development and for determining appropriate brain areas for recording. We simulated arm movements that could be practically restored to individuals with severe paralysis i.e. movements from an armrest to a volume in front of the person. Performance was evaluated by calculating the smallest movement endpoint target radius within which the decoded cursor position could dwell for 1 s. Our results show that goal position and velocity neurons all contribute to improve performance. However velocity neurons enabled smaller targets to be reached in shorter amounts of time than goal or position neurons. Increasing the number of neurons also improved performance although performance saturated at 30-50 neurons for most neuron types. Overall our work presents a closed-loop BCI simulator that models error corrections and the firing properties of various movement-related neurons that can be easily modified to incorporate different neural properties. We anticipate that this kind of tool will be important for development of future BCIs. Velocity neurons improve performance more than goal or position neurons do in a simulated closed-loop BCI arm-reaching task.