This work presents a two-stage deep learning system for Named Entity Recognition NER and Relation Extraction RE from medical texts. These tasks are a crucial step to many natural language understanding applications in the biomedical domain. Automatic medical coding of electronic medical records automated summarizing of patient records automatic cohort identification for clinical studies text simplification of health documents for patients early detection of adverse drug reactions or automatic identification of risk factors are only a few examples of the many possible opportunities that the text analysis can offer in the clinical domain. In this work our efforts are primarily directed towards the improvement of the pharmacovigilance process by the automatic detection of drug-drug interactions DDI from texts. Moreover we deal with the semantic analysis of texts containing health information for patients. Our two-stage approach is based on Deep Learning architectures. Concretely NER is performed combining a bidirectional Long Short-Term Memory Bi-LSTM and a Conditional Random Field CRF while RE applies a Convolutional Neural Network CNN. Since our approach uses very few language resources only the pre-trained word embeddings and does not exploit any domain resources such as dictionaries or ontologies this can be easily expandable to support other languages and clinical applications that require the exploitation of semantic information concepts and relationships from texts. During the last years the task of DDI extraction has received great attention by the BioNLP community. However the problem has been traditionally evaluated as two separate subtasks: drug name recognition and extraction of DDIs. To the best of our knowledge this is the first work that provides an evaluation of the whole pipeline. Moreover our system obtains state-of-the-art results on the eHealth-KD challenge which was part of the Workshop on Semantic Analysis at SEPLN TASS-2018. A two-stage deep learning approach for extracting entities and relationships from medical texts.