Establishing a connection between intrinsic and task-evoked brain activities is critical because it would provide a way to map task-related brain regions in patients unable to comply with such tasks. A crucial question within this realm is to what extent the execution of a cognitive task affects the intrinsic activity of brain regions not involved in the task. Computational models can be useful to answer this question because they allow us to distinguish task from nontask neural elements while giving us the effects of task execution on nontask regions of interest at the neuroimaging level. The quantification of those effects in a computational model would represent a step toward elucidating the intrinsic versus task-evoked connection. In this study we used computational modeling and graph theoretical metrics to quantify changes in intrinsic functional brain connectivity due to task execution. We used our large-scale neural modeling framework to embed a computational model of visual short-term memory into an empirically derived connectome. We simulated a neuroimaging study consisting of 10 subjects performing passive fixation PF passive viewing PV and delayed match-to-sample DMS tasks. We used the simulated blood oxygen level-dependent functional magnetic resonance imaging time series to calculate functional connectivity FC matrices and used those matrices to compute several graph theoretical measures. After determining that the simulated graph theoretical measures were largely consistent with experiments we were able to quantify the differences between the graph metrics of the PF condition and those of the PV and DMS conditions. Thus we show that we can use graph theoretical methods applied to simulated brain networks to aid in the quantification of changes in intrinsic brain FC during task execution. Our results represent a step toward establishing a connection between intrinsic and task-related brain activities. Quantifying Differences Between Passive and Task-Evoked Intrinsic Functional Connectivity in a Large-Scale Brain Simulation.