Background Nasopharyngeal carcinoma NPC may be cured with radiation therapy. Tumor proximity to critical structures demands accuracy in tumor delineation to avoid toxicities from radiation therapy; however tumor target contouring for head and neck radiation therapy is labor intensive and highly variable among radiation oncologists. Purpose To construct and validate an artificial intelligence AI contouring tool to automate primary gross tumor volume GTV contouring in patients with NPC. Materials and Methods In this retrospective study MRI data sets covering the nasopharynx from 1021 patients median age 47 years; 751 male 270 female with NPC between September 2016 and September 2017 were collected and divided into training validation and testing cohorts of 715 103 and 203 patients respectively. GTV contours were delineated for 1021 patients and were defined by consensus of two experts. A three-dimensional convolutional neural network was applied to 818 training and validation MRI data sets to construct the AI tool which was tested in 203 independent MRI data sets. Next the AI tool was compared against eight qualified radiation oncologists in a multicenter evaluation by using a random sample of 20 test MRI examinations. The Wilcoxon matched-pairs signed rank test was used to compare the difference of Dice similarity coefficient DSC of pre- versus post-AI assistance. Results The AI-generated contours demonstrated a high level of accuracy when compared with ground truth contours at testing in 203 patients DSC 0.79; 2.0-mm difference in average surface distance. In multicenter evaluation AI assistance improved contouring accuracy five of eight oncologists had a higher median DSC after AI assistance; average median DSC 0.74 vs 0.78; P < .001 reduced intra- and interobserver variation by 36.4% and 54.5% respectively and reduced contouring time by 39.4%. Conclusion The AI contouring tool improved primary gross tumor contouring accuracy of nasopharyngeal carcinoma which could have a positive impact on tumor control and patient survival. Deep Learning for Automated Contouring of Primary Tumor Volumes by MRI for Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma.