In cortical structures principal cell activity is tightly regulated by different GABAergic interneurons INs. Among these INs are vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-expressing VIP+ INs which innervate preferentially other INs providing a structural basis for temporal disinhibition of principal cells. However relatively little is known about VIP+ INs in the amygdaloid basolateral complex BLA. In this study we report that VIP+ INs have a variable density in the distinct subdivisions of the mouse BLA. Based on different anatomical neurochemical and electrophysiological criteria VIP+ INs could be identified as IN-selective INs IS-INs and basket cells expressing CB1 cannabinoid receptors. Whole-cell recordings of VIP+ IS-INs revealed three different spiking patterns none of which was associated with the expression of calretinin. Genetic targeting combined with optogenetics and in vitro recordings enabled us to identify several types of BLA INs innervated by VIP+ INs including other IS-INs basket and neurogliaform cells. Moreover light stimulation of VIP+ basket cell axon terminals characterized by CB1 sensitivity evoked IPSPs in 20% of principal neurons. Finally we show that VIP+ INs receive a dense innervation from both GABAergic inputs although only 10% from other VIP+ INs and distinct glutamatergic inputs identified by their expression of different vesicular glutamate transporters.In conclusion our study provides a wide-range analysis of single-cell properties of VIP+ INs in the mouse BLA and of their intrinsic and extrinsic connectivity. Our results reinforce the evidence that VIP+ INs are structurally and functionally heterogeneous and that this heterogeneity could mediate different roles in amygdala-dependent functions.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT We provide the first comprehensive analysis of the distribution of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-expressing VIP+ interneurons INs across the entire mouse amygdaloid basolateral complex BLA as well as of their morphological and physiological properties. VIP+ INs in the neocortex preferentially target other INs to form a disinhibitory network that facilitates principal cell firing. Our study is the first to demonstrate the presence of such a disinhibitory circuitry in the BLA. We observed structural and functional heterogeneity of these INs and characterized their input/output connectivity. We also identified several types of BLA INs that when inhibited may provide a temporal window for principal cell firing and facilitate associative plasticity e.g. in fear learning. Vasoactive Intestinal Polypeptide-Immunoreactive Interneurons within Circuits of the Mouse Basolateral Amygdala.