Early picture archiving and communication systems PACS were characterized by the use of very expensive hardware devices cumbersome display stations duplication of database content lack of interfaces to other clinical information systems and immaturity in their understanding of the folder manager concepts and workflow reengineering. They were implemented historically at large academic medical centers by biomedical engineers and imaging informaticists. PACS were nonstandard home-grown projects with mixed clinical acceptance. However they clearly showed the great potential for PACS and filmless medical imaging. Filmless radiology is a reality today. The advent of efficient softcopy display of images provides a means for dealing with the ever-increasing number of studies and number of images per study. Computer power has increased and archival storage cost has decreased to the extent that the economics of PACS is justifiable with respect to film. Network bandwidths have increased to allow large studies of many megabytes to arrive at display stations within seconds of examination completion. PACS vendors have recognized the need for efficient workflow and have built systems with intelligence in the management of patient data. Close integration with the hospital information system HIS-radiology information system RIS is critical for system functionality. Successful implementation of PACS requires integration or interoperation with hospital and radiology information systems. Besides the economic advantages secure rapid access to all clinical information on patients including imaging studies anytime and anywhere enhances the quality of patient care although it is difficult to quantify. Medical image management systems are maturing providing access outside of the radiology department to images and clinical information throughout the hospital or the enterprise via the Internet. Small and medium-sized community hospitals private practices and outpatient centers in rural areas will begin realizing the benefits of PACS already realized by the large tertiary care academic medical centers and research institutions. Hand-held devices and the Worldwide Web are going to change the way people communicate and do business. The impact on health care will be huge including radiology. Computer-aided diagnosis decision support tools virtual imaging and guidance systems will transform our practice as value-added applications utilizing the technologies pushed by PACS development efforts. Outcomes data and the electronic medical record EMR will drive our interactions with referring physicians and we expect the radiologist to become the informaticist a new version of the medical management consultant. Computers in imaging and health care: now and in the future.