"Hands motor imagery MI has been reported to alter synchronization patterns amongst neurons yielding variations in the mu and beta bands power spectral density PSD of the electroencephalography EEG signal. These alterations have been used in the field of brain-computer interfaces BCI in an attempt to assign distinct MI tasks to commands of such a system. Recent studies have highlighted that information may be missing if knowledge about brain functional connectivity is not considered. In this work we modeled the brain as a graph in which each EEG electrode represents a node. Our goal was to understand if there exists any linear correlation between variations in the synchronization patterns-that is variations in the PSD of mu and beta bands-induced by MI and alterations in the corresponding functional networks. Moreover we 1 explored the feasibility of using functional connectivity parameters as features for a classifier in the context of an MI-BCI; 2 investigated three different types of feature selection FS techniques; and 3 compared our approach to a more traditional method using the signal PSD as classifier inputs. Ten healthy subjects participated in this study. We observed significant correlations p\xa0<\xa00.05 with values ranging from 0.4 to 0.9 between PSD variations and functional network alterations for some electrodes prominently in the beta band. The PSD method performed better for data classification with mean accuracies of 90 \xa08% and 87 \xa07% for the mu and beta band respectively versus 83 \xa08% and 83 \xa07% for the same bands for the graph method. Moreover the number of features for the graph method was considerably larger. However results for both methods were relatively close and even overlapped when the uncertainties of the accuracy rates were considered. Further investigation regarding a careful exploration of other graph metrics may provide better alternatives." "EEG sensorimotor rhythms variation and functional connectivity measures during motor imagery: linear relations and classification approaches."