Perineuronal nets PNNs composed mainly of chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans are the extracellular matrix that surrounds cell bodies proximal dendrites and axon initial segments of adult CNS neurons. PNNs are known to regulate neuronal plasticity although their physiological roles in cerebellar functions have yet to be elucidated. Here we investigated the contribution of PNNs to GABAergic transmission from cerebellar Purkinje cells PCs to large glutamatergic neurons in the deep cerebellar nuclei DCN in male mice by recording IPSCs from cerebellar slices in which PNNs were depleted with chondroitinase ABC ChABC. We found that PNN depletion increased the amplitude of evoked IPSCs and enhanced the paired-pulse depression. ChABC treatment also facilitated spontaneous IPSCs and increased the miniature IPSC frequency without changing not only the amplitude but also the density of PC terminals suggesting that PNN depletion enhances presynaptic GABA release. We also demonstrated that the enhanced GABAergic transmission facilitated rebound firing in large glutamatergic DCN neurons which is expected to result in the efficient induction of synaptic plasticity at synapses onto DCN neurons. Furthermore we tested whether PNN depletion affects cerebellar motor learning. Mice having received the enzyme into the interpositus nuclei which are responsible for delay eyeblink conditioning exhibited the conditioned response at a significantly higher rate than control mice. Therefore our results suggest that PNNs of the DCN suppress GABAergic transmission between PCs and large glutamatergic DCN neurons and restrict synaptic plasticity associated with motor learning in the adult cerebellum.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT Perineuronal nets PNNs are one of the extracellular matrices of adult CNS neurons and implicated in regulating various brain functions. Here we found that enzymatic PNN depletion in the mouse deep cerebellar nuclei DCN reduced the paired-pulse ratio of IPSCs and increased the miniature IPSC frequency without changing the amplitude suggesting that PNN depletion enhances GABA release from the presynaptic Purkinje cell PC terminals. Mice having received the enzyme in the interpositus nuclei exhibited a higher conditioned response rate in delay eyeblink conditioning than control mice. These results suggest that PNNs regulate presynaptic functions of PC terminals in the DCN and functional plasticity of synapses on DCN neurons which influences the flexibility of adult cerebellar functions. Perineuronal Nets in the Deep Cerebellar Nuclei Regulate GABAergic Transmission and Delay Eyeblink Conditioning.