"Alzheimers disease and progressive supranuclear palsy PSP represent neurodegenerative tauopathies with predominantly cortical versus subcortical disease burden. In Alzheimers disease neuropathology and atrophy preferentially affect hub brain regions that are densely connected. It was unclear whether hubs are differentially affected by neurodegeneration because they are more likely to receive pathological proteins that propagate trans-neuronally in a prion-like manner or whether they are selectively vulnerable due to a lack of local trophic factors higher metabolic demands or differential gene expression. We assessed the relationship between tau burden and brain functional connectivity by combining in vivo PET imaging using the ligand AV-1451 and graph theoretic measures of resting state functional MRI in 17 patients with Alzheimers disease 17 patients with PSP and 12 controls. Strongly connected nodes displayed more tau pathology in Alzheimers disease independently of intrinsic connectivity network validating the predictions of theories of trans-neuronal spread but not supporting a role for metabolic demands or deficient trophic support in tau accumulation. This was not a compensatory phenomenon as the functional consequence of increasing tau burden in Alzheimers disease was a progressive weakening of the connectivity of these same nodes reducing weighted degree and local efficiency and resulting in weaker small-world properties. Conversely in PSP unlike in Alzheimers disease those nodes that accrued pathological tau were those that displayed graph metric properties associated with increased metabolic demand and a lack of trophic support rather than strong functional connectivity. Together these findings go some way towards explaining why Alzheimers disease affects large scale connectivity networks throughout cortex while neuropathology in PSP is concentrated in a small number of subcortical structures. Further we demonstrate that in PSP increasing tau burden in midbrain and deep nuclei was associated with strengthened cortico-cortical functional connectivity. Disrupted cortico-subcortical and cortico-brainstem interactions meant that information transfer took less direct paths passing through a larger number of cortical nodes reducing closeness centrality and eigenvector centrality in PSP while increasing weighted degree clustering betweenness centrality and local efficiency. Our results have wide-ranging implications from the validation of models of tau trafficking in humans to understanding the relationship between regional tau burden and brain functional reorganization." "Tau burden and the functional connectome in Alzheimers disease and progressive supranuclear palsy."