The increased popularity of social media and mobile gaming among young adults provides an opportunity for innovative nutrition programs. This review evaluated the efficacy of these strategies in interventions targeted at 18- to 35-year-olds. The protocol was guided by the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses PRISMA. Ten scientific databases information technology conference proceedings and gray literature were searched. Two reviewers conducted screening data extraction and quality assessments. Interventions were included if they used social media or electronic games. Comparisons were made pre- to post-intervention or between intervention and control arms. Outcomes of interest included change in nutrition knowledge attitudes behavior or weight and/or body composition. Eleven social media-based randomized controlled trials RCT n=7 and six game-based RCT n=1 interventions were included. Overall quality of studies was low. Social media-based strategies included forum/blogs n=5 Facebook n=5 Twitter n=1 YouTube n=1 and chat rooms n=1. Eight RCT n=6 of 11 social media-based studies demonstrated improvements in outcomes. Findings suggested that social media may be more effective when combined with other strategies. Virtual reality games n=3 web-based games n=2 and a mobile application n=1 were used in the gaming interventions. While a significant increase in knowledge was reported by three gaming studies RCT=1 two used nonvalidated tools and longer-term measures of weight and behavioral outcomes were limited. The use of social media and gaming for nutrition promotion is in its infancy. Preliminary evidence suggests that these strategies have some utility for intervening with young adults. Further research using high-quality study designs is required with measurement of outcomes over longer time periods. The systematic review protocol is registered with PROSPERO registration number: CRD42015025427. A Narrative Review of Social Media and Game-Based Nutrition Interventions Targeted at Young Adults.