"Heterotopagnosia-without-Autotopagnosia HwA is characterized by the incapacity to point to body parts on others but not on ones own body. This has been classically interpreted as related to a self-other distinction with impaired visual representations of other bodies seen in third person perspective 3PP besides spared own body somatosensory representations in 1PP. However HwA could be impacted by a deficit in the integration of visual and somatosensory information in space that are spatially congruent in the case of ones own body but not for others body. Here we test this hypothesis in a rare neurological patient with HwA H+ as well as in a control patient with a comparable neuropsychological profile but without HwA and in age-matched healthy controls in two experiments. First we assessed body part recognition in a new task where somatosensory information from the participants body and visual information from the target body shown in virtual reality was never aligned in space. Results show that differently from the flawless performance in controls H+ committed errors for not only the body of others in 3PP but for all conditions where the information related to the real and the target body was not spatially congruent. Then we tested whether the integration between these multisensory bodily cues in space as during visuo-tactile stimulation in the full-body illusion improves the patients performance. Data show that after the stimulation prompting visuo-tactile integration but not in control conditions the patients abilities to process body parts improved up to normal level thus confirming and extending the first findings. Altogether these results support a new interpretation of HwA as linked to the matching between somatosensory inputs from ones body and visual information from a body seen at a distance and encourage the application of multisensory stimulation and virtual reality for the treatment of body-related disorders." You or me? Disentangling perspectival perceptual and integrative mechanisms in heterotopagnosia.