Bone age assessment BAA is a commonly performed diagnostic study in pediatric radiology to assess skeletal maturity. The most commonly utilized method for assessment of BAA is the Greulich and Pyle method Pediatr Radiol 46.9:1269-1274 2016; Arch Dis Child 81.2:172-173 1999 atlas. The evaluation of BAA can be a tedious and time-consuming process for the radiologist. As such several computer-assisted detection/diagnosis CAD methods have been proposed for automation of BAA. Classical CAD tools have traditionally relied on hard-coded algorithmic features for BAA which suffer from a variety of drawbacks. Recently the advent and proliferation of convolutional neural networks CNNs has shown promise in a variety of medical imaging applications. There have been at least two published applications of using deep learning for evaluation of bone age Med Image Anal 36:41-51 2017; JDI 1-5 2017. However current implementations are limited by a combination of both architecture design and relatively small datasets. The purpose of this study is to demonstrate the benefits of a customized neural network algorithm carefully calibrated to the evaluation of bone age utilizing a relatively large institutional dataset. In doing so this study will aim to show that advanced architectures can be successfully trained from scratch in the medical imaging domain and can generate results that outperform any existing proposed algorithm. The training data consisted of 10289 images of different skeletal age examinations 8909 from the hospital Picture Archiving and Communication System at our institution and 1383 from the public Digital Hand Atlas Database. The data was separated into four cohorts one each for male and female children above the age of 8 and one each for male and female children below the age of 10. The testing set consisted of 20 radiographs of each 1-year-age cohort from 0 to 1\xa0years to 14-15+\u2009years half male and half female. The testing set included left-hand radiographs done for bone age assessment trauma evaluation without significant findings and skeletal surveys. A 14 hidden layer-customized neural network was designed for this study. The network included several state of the art techniques including residual-style connections inception layers and spatial transformer layers. Data augmentation was applied to the network inputs to prevent overfitting. A linear regression output was utilized. Mean square error was used as the network loss function and mean absolute error MAE was utilized as the primary performance metric. MAE accuracies on the validation and test sets for young females were 0.654 and 0.561 respectively. For older females validation and test accuracies were 0.662 and 0.497 respectively. For young males validation and test accuracies were 0.649 and 0.585 respectively. Finally for older males validation and test set accuracies were 0.581 and 0.501 respectively. The female cohorts were trained for 900 epochs each and the male cohorts were trained for 600 epochs. An eightfold cross-validation set was employed for hyperparameter tuning. Test error was obtained after training on a full data set with the selected hyperparameters. Using our proposed customized neural network architecture on our large available data we achieved an aggregate validation and test set mean absolute errors of 0.637 and 0.536 respectively. To date this is the best published performance on utilizing deep learning for bone age assessment. Our results support our initial hypothesis that customized purpose-built neural networks provide improved performance over networks derived from pre-trained imaging data sets. We build on that initial work by showing that the addition of state-of-the-art techniques such as residual connections and inception architecture further improves prediction accuracy. This is important because the current assumption for use of residual and/or inception architectures is that a large pre-trained network is required for successful implementation given the relatively small datasets in medical imaging. Instead we show that a small customized architecture incorporating advanced CNN strategies can indeed be trained from scratch yielding significant improvements in algorithm accuracy. It should be noted that for all four cohorts testing error outperformed validation error. One reason for this is that our ground truth for our test set was obtained by averaging two pediatric radiologist reads compared to our training data for which only a single read was used. This suggests that despite relatively noisy training data the algorithm could successfully model the variation between observers and generate estimates that are close to the expected ground truth. MABAL: a Novel Deep-Learning Architecture for Machine-Assisted Bone Age Labeling.