Virtual reality VR has become mature enough to be successfully used in clinical applications such as exposure therapy pain distraction and neuropsychological assessment. However we now need to go beyond the outcome data from this research and conduct the detailed scientific investigations required to better understand what factors influence why VR works or doesn\t in these types of clinical applications. This knowledge is required to guide the development of VR applications in the key areas of education training and rehabilitation and to further evolve existing VR approaches. One of the primary assets obtained with the use of VR is the ability to simulate the complexity of real world environments within which human performance can be tested and trained. But this asset comes with a price in terms of the capture quantification and analysis of large multivariate and concurrent data sources that reflect the naturalistic behavioral interaction that is afforded in a virtual world. As well while achieving realism has been a main goal in making convincing VR environments just what constitutes realism and how much is needed is still an open question situated firmly in the research domain. Just as in real "reality" such factors in virtual reality are complex and multivariate and the understanding of this complexity presents exceptional challenges to the VR researcher. For certain research questions good behavioral science often requires consistent delivery of stimuli within tightly controlled lab-based experimental conditions. However for other important research questions we do not want to constrain naturalistic behavior and limit VR\s ability to replicate real world conditions simply because it is easier to study human performance with traditional lab-based methodologies. By doing so we may compromise the very qualities that comprise VR\s unique capacity to mimic the experiences and challenges that exist in everyday life. What is really needed to address scientific questions that require natural exploration of a simulated environment are more usable and robust tools to instrument organize and visualize the complex data generated by measurements of participant behaviors within a virtual world. This paper briefly describes the rationale and methodology of an initial study in an ongoing research program that aims to investigate human performance within a virtual environment where unconstrained "free will" exploratory behavior is essential to research questions that involve the relationships between physiology emotion and memory. After a discussion of the research protocol and the types of data that were collected we describe a novel tool that was borne from our need to more efficiently capture manage and explore the complex data that was generated in this research. An example of a research participant\s annotated display from this data management and visualization tool is then presented. It is our view that this tool provides the capacity to better visualize and understand the complex data relationships that may arise in VR research that investigates naturalistic free will behavior and its impact on other human performance variables. Development of a data management tool for investigating multivariate space and free will experiences in virtual reality.