"Inconsistent findings from migraine neuroimaging studies have limited attempts to localize migraine symptomatology. Novel brain network mapping techniques offer a new approach for linking neuroimaging findings to a common neuroanatomical substrate and localizing therapeutic targets. In this study we attempted to determine whether neuroanatomically heterogeneous neuroimaging findings of migraine localize to a common brain network. We used meta-analytic coordinates of decreased grey matter volume in migraineurs as seed regions to generate resting state functional connectivity network maps from a normative connectome n = 1000. Network maps were overlapped to identify common regions of connectivity across all coordinates. Specificity of our findings was evaluated using a whole-brain Bayesian spatial generalized linear mixed model and a region of interest analysis with comparison groups of chronic pain and a neurologic control Alzheimers disease. We found that all migraine coordinates 11/11 100% were negatively connected t  7 P < 10-6 family-wise error corrected for multiple comparisons to a single location in left extrastriate visual cortex overlying dorsal V3 and V3A subregions. More than 90% of coordinates 10/11 were also positively connected with bilateral insula and negatively connected with the hypothalamus. Bayesian spatial generalized linear mixed model whole-brain analysis identified left V3/V3A as the area with the most specific connectivity to migraine coordinates compared to control coordinates voxel-wise probability of 90%. Post hoc region of interest analyses further supported the specificity of this finding ANOVA P = 0.02; pairwise t-tests P = 0.03 and P = 0.003 respectively. In conclusion using coordinate-based network mapping we show that regions of grey matter volume loss in migraineurs localize to a common brain network defined by connectivity to visual cortex V3/V3A a region previously implicated in mechanisms of cortical spreading depression in migraine. Our findings help unify migraine neuroimaging literature and offer a migraine-specific target for neuromodulatory treatment." Mapping migraine to a common brain network.