Brain-computer interfaces BCIs translate oscillatory electroencephalogram EEG patterns into action. Different mental activities modulate spontaneous EEG rhythms in various ways. Non-stationarity and inherent variability of EEG signals however make reliable recognition of modulated EEG patterns challenging. Able-bodied individuals who use a BCI for the first time achieve - on average - binary classification performance of about 75%. Performance in users with central nervous system CNS tissue damage is typically lower. User training generally enhances reliability of EEG pattern generation and thus also robustness of pattern recognition. In this study we investigated the impact of mental tasks on binary classification performance in BCI users with central nervous system CNS tissue damage such as persons with stroke or spinal cord injury SCI. Motor imagery MI that is the kinesthetic imagination of movement e.g. squeezing a rubber ball with the right hand is the "gold standard" and mainly used to modulate EEG patterns. Based on our recent results in able-bodied users we hypothesized that pair-wise combination of "brain-teaser" e.g. mental subtraction and mental word association and "dynamic imagery" e.g. hand and feet MI tasks significantly increases classification performance of induced EEG patterns in the selected end-user group. Within-day How stable is the classification within a day? and between-day How well does a model trained on day one perform on unseen data of day two? analysis of variability of mental task pair classification in nine individuals confirmed the hypothesis. We found that the use of the classical MI task pair hand vs. feed leads to significantly lower classification accuracy - in average up to 15% less - in most users with stroke or SCI. User-specific selection of task pairs was again essential to enhance performance. We expect that the gained evidence will significantly contribute to make imagery-based BCI technology become accessible to a larger population of users including individuals with special needs due to CNS damage. Individually adapted imagery improves brain-computer interface performance in end-users with disability.