Functional magnetic resonance imaging fMRI provides excellent functional brain imaging via the BOLD signal with advantages including non-ionizing radiation millimeter spatial accuracy of anatomical and functional data and nearly real-time analyses. Haptic robots provide precise measurement and control of position and force of a cursor in a reasonably confined space. Here we combine these two technologies to allow precision experiments involving motor control with haptic/tactile environment interaction such as reaching or grasping. The basic idea is to attach an 8 foot end effecter supported in the center to the robot allowing the subject to use the robot but shielding it and keeping it out of the most extreme part of the magnetic field from the fMRI machine Figure 1. The Phantom Premium 3.0 6DoF high-force robot SensAble Technologies Inc. is an excellent choice for providing force-feedback in virtual reality experiments but it is inherently non-MR safe introduces significant noise to the sensitive fMRI equipment and its electric motors may be affected by the fMRI\s strongly varying magnetic field. We have constructed a table and shielding system that allows the robot to be safely introduced into the fMRI environment and limits both the degradation of the fMRI signal by the electrically noisy motors and the degradation of the electric motor performance by the strongly varying magnetic field of the fMRI. With the shield the signal to noise ratio SNR: mean signal/noise standard deviation of the fMRI goes from a baseline of ~380 to ~330 and ~250 without the shielding. The remaining noise appears to be uncorrelated and does not add artifacts to the fMRI of a test sphere Figure 2. The long stiff handle allows placement of the robot out of range of the most strongly varying parts of the magnetic field so there is no significant effect of the fMRI on the robot. The effect of the handle on the robot\s kinematics is minimal since it is lightweight ~2.6 lbs but extremely stiff 3/4" graphite and well balanced on the 3DoF joint in the middle. The end result is an fMRI compatible haptic system with about 1 cubic foot of working space and when combined with virtual reality it allows for a new set of experiments to be performed in the fMRI environment including naturalistic reaching passive displacement of the limb and haptic perception adaptation learning in varying force fields or texture identification. Adaptation of a haptic robot in a 3T fMRI.