In the present study a new methodology is proposed for recognition of emotional state mediated by affective video film clips. Principal Component Analysis PCA is applied to full-band specific Phase Space Trajectory Matrix extracted from short emotional EEG segment of 6 s then the first Principal Component is used as emotional feature in terms of neuro-cortical complexity levels in discriminating nine discrete emotions fear anger happiness sadness amusement surprise excitement calmness disgust from baseline through Convolutional Neural Networks CNNs. In tests the performance of CNNs is compared to another deep learning application called Long-Short term Memory Networks and Support Vector Machine classifiers with different kernels as well as Naive Bayes classifier. In applications two concepts gender classification and emotion classification have been considered with respect to both instants single feature extracted from single epoch and subjects large number of features extracted from single subject in an emotional state. The resulting performance of the proposed method has also been examined for longer segment statement of 12 s. Experimental data was downloaded from an internationally publicly available dataset called DREAMER. The results show that healthy young females differ from males in amusement such that the difference becomes higher when subject classification is performed. Regarding the combined features extracted from females and males the other emotional states are clearly discriminated from baseline with considerably high accuracy levels by using CNNs in both instant and subject classification manners. The results reveal that emotion formation is mostly influenced by individual experiences rather than gender. In detail local neuronal complexity is mostly sensitive to the affective valance rating. PCA can be proposed as secondary process on phase domain EEG space in order to obtain useful emotional features. CNN provides high performance for emotion recognition. Deep Learning Classification of Neuro-Emotional Phase Domain Complexity Levels Induced by Affective Video Film Clips.