Penile cancer is one of the male-specific cancers. Accurate pretreatment staging is crucial due to a plethora of treatment options currently available. The 8th edition American Joint Committee on Cancer-Tumor Node and Metastasis AJCC-TNM revised the staging for penile cancers with invasion of corpora cavernosa upstaged from T2 to T3 and invasion of urethra downstaged from T3 to being not separately relevant. With this revision MRI is more relevant in local staging because MRI is accurate in identifying invasion of corpora cavernosa while the accuracy is lower for detection of urethral involvement. The recent European Urology Association EAU guidelines recommend MRI to exclude invasion of the corpora cavernosa especially if penis preservation is planned. Identification of satellite lesions and measurement of residual-penile-length help in surgical planning. When nonsurgical treatment modalities of the primary tumor are being considered accurate local staging helps in decision-making regarding upfront inguinal lymph node dissection as against surveillance. MRI helps in detection and extent of inguinal and pelvic lymphadenopathy and is superior to clinical palpation which continues to be the current approach recommended by National Comprehensive Cancer Network NCCN treatment guidelines. MRI helps the detection of "bulky" lymph nodes that warrant neoadjuvant chemotherapy and potentially identify extranodal extension. However tumor involvement in small lymph nodes and differentiation of reactive vs. malignant lymphadenopathy in large lymph nodes continue to be challenging and the utilization of alternative contrast agents superparamagnetic iron oxide positron emission tomography PET-MRI along with texture analysis is promising. In locally recurrent tumors MRI is invaluable in identification of deep invasion which forms the basis of treatment. Multiparametric MRI especially diffusion-weighted-imaging may allow for quantitative noninvasive assessment of tumor grade and histologic subtyping to avoid biopsy undersampling. Further research is required for incorporation of MRI with deep learning and artificial intelligence algorithms for effective staging in penile cancer. LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: 5 TECHNICAL EFFICACY: Stage 3. Role of MRI in Staging of Penile Cancer.