A new approach in motor rehabilitation after stroke is to use motor imagery MI. To give feedback on MI performance brain-computer interface BCIs can be used. This requires a fast and easy acquisition of a reliable classifier. Usually for training a classifier electroencephalogram EEG data of MI without feedback is used but it would be advantageous if we could give feedback right from the beginning. The sensorimotor EEG changes of the motor cortex during active and passive movement PM and MI are similar. The aim of this study is to explore whether it is possible to use EEG data from active or PM to set up a classifier for the detection of MI in a group of elderly persons. In addition the activation patterns of the motor cortical areas of elderly persons were analyzed during different motor tasks. EEG was recorded from three Laplacian channels over the sensorimotor cortex in a sample of 19 healthy elderly volunteers. Participants performed three different tasks in consecutive order passive active hand movement and hand MI. Classifiers were calculated with data of every task. These classifiers were then used to detect event-related desynchronization ERD in the MI data. ERD values related to the different tasks were calculated and analyzed statistically. The performance of classifiers calculated from passive and active hand movement data did not differ significantly regarding the classification accuracy for detecting MI. The EEG patterns of the motor cortical areas during the different tasks was similar to the patterns normally found in younger persons but more widespread regarding localization and frequency range of the ERD. In this study we have shown that it is possible to use classifiers calculated with data from passive and active hand movement to detect MI. Hence for working with stroke patients a physiotherapy session could be used to obtain data for classifier set up and the BCI-rehabilitation training could start immediately. First Steps Toward a Motor Imagery Based Stroke BCI: New Strategy to Set up a Classifier.