The aim of our study was to evaluate the first trimester cerebellar growth and development using 2 different measuring techniques: 3-dimensional 3D and virtual reality VR ultrasound visualization. The cerebellum measurements were related to gestational age GA and crown-rump length CRL. Finally the reproducibility of both the methods was tested. In a prospective cohort study we collected 630 first trimester serially obtained 3D ultrasound scans of 112 uncomplicated pregnancies between 7 + 0 and 12 + 6 weeks of GA. Only scans with high-quality images of the fossa posterior were selected for the analysis. Measurements were performed offline in the coronal plane using 3D 4D view and VR V-Scope software. The VR enables the observer to use all available dimensions in a data set by visualizing the volume as a "hologram." Total cerebellar diameter left and right hemispheric diameter and thickness were measured using both the techniques. All measurements were performed 3 times and means were used in repeated measurements analysis. After exclusion criteria were applied 177 28% 3D data sets were available for further analysis. The median GA was 10 + 0 weeks and the median CRL was 31.4 mm range: 5.2-79.0 mm. The cerebellar parameters could be measured from 7 gestational weeks onward. The total cerebellar diameter increased from 2.2 mm at 7 weeks of GA to 13.9 mm at 12 weeks of GA using VR and from 2.2 to 13.8 mm using 3D ultrasound. The reproducibility established in a subset of 35 data sets resulted in intraclass correlation coefficient values 0.98. It can be concluded that cerebellar measurements performed by the 2 methods proved to be reproducible and comparable with each other. However VR-using all three dimensions-provides a superior method for the visualization of the cerebellum. The constructed reference values can be used to study normal and abnormal cerebellar growth and development. Human embryonic growth and development of the cerebellum using 3-dimensional ultrasound and virtual reality.