"Disruption of cholinergic and serotonergic neurotransmitter systems is associated with cognitive emotional and behavioural symptoms of Alzheimers disease AD. To investigate the responsiveness of these systems in AD we measured the effects of a single-dose of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor citalopram and acetylcholinesterase inhibitor galantamine in 12 patients with AD and 12 age-matched controls on functional brain connectivity with resting state functional magnetic resonance imaging. In this randomized double blind placebo-controlled crossover study functional magnetic resonance images were repeatedly obtained before and after dosing resulting in a dataset of 432 scans. Connectivity maps of ten functional networks were extracted using a dual regression method and drug vs. placebo effects were compared between groups with a multivariate analysis with signals coming from cerebrospinal fluid and white matter as covariates at the subject level and baseline and heart rate measurements as confound regressors in the higher-level analysis at p\u202f<\u202f0.05 corrected. A galantamine induced difference between groups was observed for the cerebellar network. Connectivity within the cerebellar network and between this network and the thalamus decreased after galantamine vs. placebo in AD patients but not in controls. For citalopram voxelwise network connectivity did not show significant group\u202f\u202ftreatment interaction effects. However we found default mode network connectivity with the precuneus and posterior cingulate cortex to be increased in AD patients which could not be detected within the control group. Further in contrast to the AD patients control subjects showed a consistent reduction in mean connectivity with all networks after administration of citalopram. Since AD has previously been characterized by reduced connectivity between the default mode network and the precuneus and posterior cingulate cortex the effects of citalopram on the default mode network suggest a restoring potential of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors in AD. The results of this study also confirm a change in cerebellar connections in AD which is possibly related to cholinergic decline." "Cholinergic and serotonergic modulation of resting state functional brain connectivity in Alzheimers disease."