Humans integrate information communicated by speech and gestures. Functional magnetic resonance imaging fMRI studies suggest that the posterior superior temporal sulcus STS and adjacent gyri are relevant for multisensory integration. However a connectivity model representing this essential combinatory process is still missing. Here we used dynamic causal modeling for fMRI to analyze the effective connectivity pattern between middle temporal gyrus MTG occipital cortex OC and STS associated with auditory verbal visual gesture-related and integrative processing respectively to unveil the neural mechanisms underlying integration of intrinsically meaningful gestures e.g. "Thumbs-up gesture" and corresponding speech. 20 participants were presented videos of an actor either performing intrinsic meaningful gestures in the context of German or Russian sentences or speaking a German sentence without gesture while performing a content judgment task. The connectivity analyses resulted in a winning model that included bidirectional intrinsic connectivity between all areas. Furthermore the model included modulations of both connections to the STS OCSTS; MTGSTS and non-linear modulatory effects of the STS on bidirectional connections between MTG and OC. Coupling strength in the occipital pathway OCSTS correlated with gesture related advantages in task performance whereas the temporal pathway MTGSTS correlated with performance in the speech only condition. Coupling between MTG and OC correlated negatively with subsequent memory performance for sentences of the Gesture-German condition. Our model provides a first step towards a better understanding of speech-gesture integration on network level. It corroborates the importance of the STS during audio-visual integration by showing that this region inhibits direct auditory-visual coupling. The connectivity signature of co-speech gesture integration: The superior temporal sulcus modulates connectivity between areas related to visual gesture and auditory speech processing.