"The study aimed to investigate whether a combination of the P3-based Guilty Knowledge Test GKT and reality monitoring RM distinguished between individuals who are guilty witnesses or informed and using both tests provided more accurate information than did the use of either measure alone. Participants consisted of 45 males that were randomly and evenly assigned to three groups i.e. guilty witness and informed. The guilty group conducted a mock crime where they intentionally crashed their vehicle into another vehicle in a virtual environment VE. As those in the witness group drove their own vehicles they observed the guilty groups vehicle crash into another vehicle. The informed group read an account and saw screenshots of the accident. All participants were instructed to insist that they were innocent. Subsequently they performed the P3-based GKT and wrote an account of the accident for the RM analysis. A higher P3 amplitude corresponded to how well the participants recognized the presented stimulus and a higher RM score corresponded to how well the participants reported vivid sensory information and how much less they reported uncertain information. Findings for the P3-based GKT indicated that the informed group showed lower P3 amplitude when presented with the probe stimulus than did the guilty and witness groups. Regarding the RM analysis the informed group obtained higher RM scores on visual temporal and spatial details and lower scores on cognitive operations than the guilty and witness groups. Finally discriminant analysis revealed that the combination of the P3-based GKT and RM more accurately distinguished between the three groups than the use of either measure alone. The findings suggest that RM may build upon a weakness of the P3-based GKTs. More specifically it may build upon its susceptibility to the leakage of information about the crime therefore helping protect innocent individuals who have information about a crime from being perceived as guilty." Effects of the combination of P3-based GKT and reality monitoring on deceptive classification.