"Hepatic cytochrome P450 levels are down-regulated during inflammatory disease states which can cause changes in downstream drug metabolism and hepatotoxicity. Long-term we seek sufficient new insight into P450-regulating mechanisms to correctly anticipate how an individuals P450 expressions will respond when health and/or therapeutic interventions change. To date improving explanatory mechanistic insight relies on knowledge gleaned from in vitro in vivo and clinical experiments augmented by case reports. We are working to improve that reality by developing means to undertake scientifically useful virtual experiments. So doing requires translating an accepted theory of immune system influence on P450 regulation into a computational model and then challenging the model via in silico experiments. We build upon two existing agent-based models-an in silico hepatocyte culture and an in silico liver-capable of exploring and challenging concrete mechanistic hypotheses. We instantiate an in silico version of this hypothesis: in response to lipopolysaccharide Kupffer cells down-regulate hepatic P450 levels via inflammatory cytokines thus leading to a reduction in metabolic capacity. We achieve multiple in vitro and in vivo validation targets gathered from five wet-lab experiments including a lipopolysaccharide-cytokine dose-response curve time-course P450 down-regulation and changes in several different measures of drug clearance spanning three drugs: acetaminophen antipyrine and chlorzoxazone. Along the way to achieving validation targets various aspects of each model are falsified and subsequently refined. This iterative process of falsification-refinement-validation leads to biomimetic yet parsimonious mechanisms which can provide explanatory insight into how where and when various features are generated. We argue that as models such as these are incrementally improved through multiple rounds of mechanistic falsification and validation we will generate virtual systems that embody deeper credible actionable explanatory insight into immune system-drug metabolism interactions within individuals." Virtual Experiments Enable Exploring and Challenging Explanatory Mechanisms of Immune-Mediated P450 Down-Regulation.