It is hypothesized that the topology of brain networks is constructed by connecting nodes which may be continuously remodeled by appropriate training. Efficiency of physical and/or mental training on the brain relies on the flexibility of networks\ architecture molded by local remodeling of proteins and synapses of excitatory neurons producing transformations in network topology. Continuous remodeling of proteins of excitatory neurons is fine-tuning the scaling and strength of excitatory synapses up or down via regulation of intra-cellular metabolic and regulatory networks of the genome-transcriptome-proteome interface. Alzheimer\s disease is a model of "energy cost-driven small-world network disorder" with dysfunction of high-energy cost wiring as the network global efficiency is impaired by the deposition of an informed agent the amyloid- selectively targeting high-degree nodes. In schizophrenia the interconnectivity and density of rich-club networks are significantly reduced. Training-induced homeostatic synaptogenesis-enhancement presumably via reconfiguration of brain networks into greater small-worldness appears essential in learning memory and executive functions. A macroscopic cartography of creation-removal of synaptic connections in a macro-network and at the intra-cellular scale micro-networks regulate the physiological mechanisms for the preferential attachment of synapses. The strongest molecular relationship of exercise and functional connectivity was identified for brain-derived neurotrophic factor BDNF. The allele variant rs7294919 also shows a powerful relationship with the hippocampal volume. How the brain achieves this unique quest of reconfiguration remains a puzzle. What are the underlying mechanisms of synaptogenesis promoting communications brain  muscle and brain  brain in such trainings? What is the respective role of independent mental physical or combined-mental-physical trainings? Physical practice seems to be playing an instrumental role in the cognitive enhancement brain  muscle com.. However mental training meditation or virtual reality films games require only minimal motor activity and cardio-respiratory stimulation. Therefore other potential paths brain  brain com. molding brain networks are nonetheless essential. Patients with motor neuron disease/injury e.g. amyotrophic lateral sclerosis traumatism also achieve successful cognitive enhancement albeit they may only elicit mental practice. Role of physical and mental training in brain network configuration.