"To analyze the registered clinical trial protocols of traditional Chinese medicineTCM for the prevention and treatment of coronavirus disease 2019COVID-19 in order to provide information for improving the quality of research design. The website of the Chinese Clinical Trial Registrywww.chictr.org.cn and the American Clinical Trial Registryclinicaltrials.gov were searched to collect protocols of TCM for COVID-19. Documents were screened following the inclusion criteria and data were extracted in regard to registration date study objective type of design sponsor patient sample size intervention and evaluation index. Descriptive analysis was conducted. A total of 49 clinical trial protocols of TCM for COVID-19 were included. Primary sponsors were mainly hospitals or universities in places like Hubei Beijing Zhejiang and other regions. The implementation units are mainly in Hubei Guangdong Zhejiang Henan and other regional hospitals. The types of study design were mainly experimental studies40 including 30 randomized parallel controlled trials 7 non-randomized controlled trials 2 single arm trials and 1 consecutively recruited trial; besides there were also 6 observational studies 2 health service studies and 1 preventive study. The sample size reached a total of 30 562 cases with a maximum of 20 000 for a single study and a minimum of 30. The 49 trials subjects included healthy people3 isolation and observation cases1 suspected cases10confirmed COVID-19 patients31 and COVID-19 recovery patients4. Of the 31 trials planned to include confirmed COVID-19 patients 16 protocols no definite disease classification 3 with a clear exclusion of severe subjects 4 with common subjects 2 with light common or severe subjects 1 with light and common subjects 1 with common or severe subjects 3 with severe subjects and 1 with severe or critical subjects. The experimental interventions included Chinese patent medicineLianhua Qingwen Capsules/Granules Huoxiang Zhengqi Dropping Pills/Oral Liquid Babao Dan Gubiao Jiedu Ling Jinhao Jiere Granules Compound Yu-xingcao Mixture Jinye Baidu Granules Shufeng Jiedu Capsuless Shuanghuanglian Oral Liquid Tanreqing Injection Xuebijing Injection Reduning Injection Xiyanping Injection Chinese medicinal decoction and taichi. The primary evaluation outcomes mainly included antipyretic time clinical symptom relief novel coronavirus nucleic acid turning to negative conversion rate of severe cases and chest CT. There was a quick response of clinical research on the prevention and treatment of COVID-19 with TCM with the current registered protocols covers the whole process of disease prevention treatment and rehabilitation. However issues need to be concerned including unclear definition of patients condition unclear research objectives unclear intervention process and inappropriate outcomes etc. In addition researchers should consider the actual difficulties and workload of doctors in epidemic response environment and make effort to optimize the process and improve the operability of research protocols under the principle of medical ethics." Analysis on clinical study protocols of traditional Chinese medicine for coronavirus disease 2019.