"In the new minimally invasive surgical era virtual reality robotics and image merging have become topics on their own offering the potential to revolutionize current surgical treatment and assessment. Improved patient care in the digital age seems to be the primary impetus for continued efforts in the field of telesurgery. The progress in endoscopic surgery with regard to telesurgery is manifested by digitization of the pre- intra- and postoperative interaction with the patients surgical disease via computer system integration: so-called Computer Assisted Surgery CAS. The preoperative assessment can be improved by 3D organ reconstruction as in virtual colonoscopy or cholangiography and by planning and practicing surgery using virtual or simulated organs. When integrating all of the data recorded during this preoperative stage an enhanced reality can be made possible to improve intra-operative patient interactions. CAS allows for increased three-dimensional accuracy improved precision and the reproducibility of procedures. The ability to store the actions of the surgeon as digitized information also allows for universal rapid distribution: i.e. the surgeons activity can be transmitted to the other side of the operating room or to a remote site via high-speed communications links as was recently demonstrated by our own team during the Lindbergh operation. Furthermore the surgeon will be able to share his expertise and skill through teleconsultation and telemanipulation bringing the patient closer to the expert surgical team through electronic means and opening the way to advanced and continuous surgical learning. Finally for postoperative interaction virtual reality and simulation can provide us with 4 dimensional images time being the fourth dimension. This should allow physicians to have a better idea of the disease process in evolution and treatment modifications based on this view can be anticipated. We are presently determining the accuracy and efficacy of 4 dimensional imaging compared to conventional evaluations." Image fusion virtual reality robotics and navigation. Effects on surgical practice.