Frequently in rugby players incorporate deceptive motions e.g. a side-step in order to pass their opponent. Previous works showed that expert defenders are more efficient in detecting deceptive motions. Performance was shown to be correlated with the evolution of the center of gravity of the attacker suggesting that experts may rely on global motion cues. This study aims at investigating whether a representation of center of gravity can be useful for training purposes by using this representation alone or by combining it with the local motion cues given by body parts. We designed an experiment in virtual reality to control the motion cues available to the defenders. Sixteen healthy participants seven experts and nine novices acted as defenders while a virtual attacker approached. Participants completed two separate tasks. The first was a time occlusion perception task occlusion after 100ms 200ms or 300ms after the initial change in direction thereafter participants indicated the passing direction of the attacker. The second was a perception-action task participants were instructed to intercept the oncoming attacker by displacing medio-laterally. The attacker performed either a non-deceptive motion directly toward the final passing direction or a deceptive motion initially toward a false direction before quickly reorienting to the true direction. There was a main effect of expertise appearance cut off times and motion on correct responses during both tasks. There was an interaction between visual appearance and expertise and between motion type and expertise during the perception task however this interaction was not present during the perception-action task. We observed that experts maintained superiority in the perception of deceptive motion; however when the visual appearance is reduced to global motion alone the difference between novices and experts is reduced. We further explore the interactions and discuss the effects observed for the visual appearance and expertise. Detection of deceptive motions in rugby from visual motion cues.