"A successful catch of a falling ball requires an accurate estimation of the timing for when the ball hits the hand. In a previous experiment in which participants performed ball-catching task in virtual reality environment we accidentally found that the weight of a falling ball was perceived differently when the timing of ball load force to the hand was shifted from the timing expected from visual information. Although it is well known that spatial information of an object such as size can easily deceive our perception of its heaviness the relationship between temporal information and perceived heaviness is still not clear. In this study we investigated the effect of temporal factors on weight perception. We conducted ball-catching experiments in a virtual environment where the timing of load force exertion was shifted away from the visual contact timing i.e. time when the ball hit the hand in the display. We found that the ball was perceived heavier when force was applied earlier than visual contact and lighter when force was applied after visual contact. We also conducted additional experiments in which participants were conditioned to one of two constant time offsets prior to testing weight perception. After performing ball-catching trials with 60\u2009ms advanced or delayed load force exertion participants subjective judgment on the simultaneity of visual contact and force exertion changed reflecting a shift in perception of time offset. In addition timing of catching motion initiation relative to visual contact changed reflecting a shift in estimation of force timing. We also found that participants began to perceive the ball as lighter after conditioning to 60\u2009ms advanced offset and heavier after the 60\u2009ms delayed offset. These results suggest that perceived heaviness depends not on the actual time offset between force exertion and visual contact but on the subjectively perceived time offset between them and/or estimation error in force timing." The effect of temporal perception on weight perception.