The aim of this study was to systematically review the performance of deep learning technology in detecting and classifying pulmonary nodules on computed tomography CT scans that were not from the Lung Image Database Consortium and Image Database Resource Initiative LIDC-IDRI database. Furthermore we explored the difference in performance when the deep learning technology was applied to test datasets different from the training datasets. Only peer-reviewed original research articles utilizing deep learning technology were included in this study and only results from testing on datasets other than the LIDC-IDRI were included. We searched a total of six databases: EMBASE PubMed Cochrane Library the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Inc. IEEE Scopus and Web of Science. This resulted in 1782 studies after duplicates were removed and a total of 26 studies were included in this systematic review. Three studies explored the performance of pulmonary nodule detection only 16 studies explored the performance of pulmonary nodule classification only and 7 studies had reports of both pulmonary nodule detection and classification. Three different deep learning architectures were mentioned amongst the included studies: convolutional neural network CNN massive training artificial neural network MTANN and deep stacked denoising autoencoder extreme learning machine SDAE-ELM. The studies reached a classification accuracy between 68-99.6% and a detection accuracy between 80.6-94%. Performance of deep learning technology in studies using different test and training datasets was comparable to studies using same type of test and training datasets. In conclusion deep learning was able to achieve high levels of accuracy sensitivity and/or specificity in detecting and/or classifying nodules when applied to pulmonary CT scans not from the LIDC-IDRI database. The Performance of Deep Learning Algorithms on Automatic Pulmonary Nodule Detection and Classification Tested on Different Datasets That Are Not Derived from LIDC-IDRI: A Systematic Review.