Cross-frequency phase-amplitude coupling cfPAC subserves an integral role in the hierarchical organization of interregional neuronal communication and is also expressed by epileptogenic cortex during seizures. Here we sought to characterize patterns of cfPAC expression in the anterior thalamic nuclei during seizures by studying extra-operative recordings in patients implanted with deep brain stimulation electrodes for intractable epilepsy. Nine seizures from two patients were analyzed in the peri-ictal period. CfPAC was calculated using the modulation index and interregional functional connectivity was indexed using the phase-locking value. Statistical analysis was performed within subjects on the basis of nonparametric permutation and corrected with Gaussian field theory. Five of the nine analyzed seizures demonstrated significant cfPAC. Significant cfPAC occurred during the pre-ictal and ictal periods in three seizures as well as the postictal windows in four seizures. The preferred phase at which cfPAC occurred differed 1 in space between the thalami of the epileptogenic and nonepileptogenic hemispheres; and 2 in time at seizure termination. The anterior thalamic nucleus of the epileptogenic hemisphere also exhibited altered interregional phase-locking synchrony concurrent with the expression of cfPAC. By analyzing extraoperative recordings from the anterior thalamic nuclei we show that cfPAC associated with altered interregional phase synchrony is lateralized to the thalamus of the epileptogenic hemisphere during seizures. Electrophysiological differences in cfPAC including preferred phase of oscillatory interactions may be further investigated as putative targets for individualized neuromodulation paradigms in patients with drug-resistant epilepsy. NEW & NOTEWORTHY The association between fast brain activity and slower oscillations is an integral mechanism for hierarchical neuronal communication which is also manifested in epileptogenic cortex. Our data suggest that the same phenomenon occurs in the anterior thalamic nuclei during seizures. Further the preferred phase of modulation shows differences in space between the epileptogenic and nonepileptogenic hemispheres and time as seizures terminate. Our data encourage the study of cross-frequency coupling for targeted individualized closed-loop stimulation paradigms. Phase-amplitude coupling within the anterior thalamic nuclei during seizures.