Opening and closing the eyes are fundamental behaviors for directing attention to the external versus internal world. However it remains unclear whether the states of eyes-open EO relative to eyes-closed EC are associated with different topological organizations of functional neural networks for exteroceptive and interoceptive processing processing the external world and internal state respectively. Here we used resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging and neural network analysis to investigate the topological properties of functional networks of the human brain when the eyes were open versus closed. The brain networks exhibited higher cliquishness and local efficiency but lower global efficiency during the EO state compared to the EC state. These properties suggest an increase in specialized information processing along with a decrease in integrated information processing in EO vs. EC. More importantly the "exteroceptive" network including the attentional system e.g. superior parietal gyrus and inferior parietal lobule ocular motor system e.g. precentral gyrus and superior frontal gyrus and arousal system e.g. insula and thalamus showed higher regional nodal properties nodal degree efficiency and betweenness centrality in EO relative to EC. In contrast the "interoceptive" network composed of visual system e.g. lingual gyrus fusiform gyrus and cuneus auditory system e.g. Heschl\s gyurs somatosensory system e.g. postcentral gyrus and part of the default mode network e.g. angular gyrus and anterior cingulate gyrus showed significantly higher regional properties in EC vs. EO. In addition the connections across sensory modalities were altered by volitional eye opening. The synchronicity between the visual system and the motor somatosensory and auditory systems characteristic of EC was attenuated in EO. Further the connections between the visual system and the attention arousal and subcortical systems were increased in EO. These results may indicate that EO leads to a suppression of sensory modalities other than visual to allocate resources to exteroceptive processing. Our findings suggest that the topological organization of human brain networks dynamically switches corresponding to the information processing modes as we open or close our eyes. Different topological organization of human brain functional networks with eyes open versus eyes closed.