The importance of how brain networks function together to create brain states has become increasingly recognized. Therefore an investigation of eyes-open resting-state dynamic functional network connectivity dFNC of healthy controls HC versus that of schizophrenia patients SP via both functional magnetic resonance imaging fMRI and a novel magnetoencephalography MEG pipeline was completed. The fMRI analysis used a spatial independent component analysis ICA to determine the networks on which the dFNC was based. The MEG analysis utilized a source space activity estimate minimum norm estimate MNE/dynamic statistical parametric mapping dSPM whose result was the input to a spatial ICA on which the networks of the MEG dFNC were based. We found that dFNC measures reveal significant differences between HC and SP which depended on the imaging modality. Consistent with previous findings a dFNC analysis predicated on fMRI data revealed HC and SP remain in different overall brain states defined by a k-means clustering of network correlations for significantly different periods of time with SP spending less time in a highly connected state. The MEG dFNC in contrast revealed group differences in more global statistics: SP changed between meta-states k-means cluster states that are allowed to overlap in time significantly more often and to states that were more different relative to HC. MEG dFNC also revealed a highly connected state where a significant difference was observed in interindividual variability with greater variability among SP. Overall our results show that fMRI and MEG reveal between-group functional connectivity differences in distinct ways highlighting the utility of using each of the modalities individually or potentially a combination of modalities to better inform our understanding of disorders such as schizophrenia. Dynamic Functional Network Connectivity in Schizophrenia with Magnetoencephalography and Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging: Do Different Timescales Tell a Different Story?