The study describes a therapeutic approach using psycho-dynamic psychotherapy integrating virtual environment VE for resolving impotence or better erectile dysfunction ED of presumably psychological or mixed origin and premature ejaculation PE. The plan for therapy consists of 12 sessions 15 if a sexual partner was involved over a 25-week period on the ontogenetic development of male sexual identity and the methods involved the use of a laptop PC joystick Virtual Reality VR helmet with miniature television screen showing a new specially-designed CD-ROM programs using Virtools with Windows 2000 and an audio CD. This study was composed of 30 patients 15 10 suffering from ED and 5 PE plus 15 control patients 10 ED and 5 PE that underwent the same therapeutic protocol but used an old VR helmet to interact with the old VE using a PC Pentium 133 16 Mb RAM. We also compared this study with another study we carried out on 160 men affected by sexual disorders underwent the same therapeutic protocol but treated using a VE created in Superscape VRT 5.6 using always Windows 2000 with portable tools. Comparing the groups of patients affected by ED and PE there emerged a significant positive results value without any important differences among the different VE used. However we had a % increase of undesirable physical reactions during the more realistic 15-minute VR experience using Virtools development kit. Psychotherapy alone normally requires long periods of treatment in order to resolve sexual dysfunctions. Considering the particular way in which full-immersion VR involves the subject who experiences it he is totally unobserved and in complete privacy we hypothesise that this methodological approach might speed up the therapeutic psycho-dynamic process which eludes cognitive defences and directly stimulates the subconscious and that better results could be obtained in the treatment of these sexual disorders. This method can be used by any psychotherapist and it can be used alone or associated with pharmacotherapy prescribed by the urologist/andrologist as part of a therapeutic alliance. Male sexual dysfunctions: immersive virtual reality and multimedia therapy.