"Virtual reality and active video games VR/AVGs are promising rehabilitation tools because of their potential to facilitate abundant motivating and feedback-rich practice. However clinical adoption remains low despite a growing evidence base and the recent development of clinically accessible and rehabilitation-specific VR/AVG systems. Given clinicians eagerness for resources to support VR/AVG use a critical need exists for knowledge translation KT interventions to facilitate VR/AVG integration into clinical practice. KT interventions have the potential to support adoption by targeting known barriers to and facilitators of change. This scoping review of the VR/AVG literature uses the Theoretical Domains Framework TDF to 1 structure an overview of known barriers and facilitators to clinical uptake of VR/AVGs for rehabilitation; 2 identify KT strategies to target these factors to facilitate adoption; and 3 report the results of these strategies. Barriers/facilitators and evaluated or proposed KT interventions spanned all but 1 and 2 TDF domains respectively. Most frequently cited barriers/facilitators were found in the TDF domains of Knowledge Skills Beliefs About Capabilities Beliefs About Consequences Intentions Goals Environmental Context and Resources and Social Influences. Few studies empirically evaluated KT interventions to support adoption; measured change in VR/AVG use did not accompany improvements in self-reported skills attitudes and knowledge. Recommendations to target frequently identified barriers include technology development to meet end-user needs more effectively competency development for end-users and facilitated VR/AVG implementation in clinical settings. Subsequent research can address knowledge gaps in both clinical and VR/AVG implementation research including on KT intervention effectiveness and unexamined TDF domain barriers. LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: IV." Barriers Facilitators and Interventions to Support Virtual Reality Implementation in Rehabilitation: A Scoping Review.