"Background: Lymph node LN metastasis is the most important prognostic factor in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma ESCC. Traditional clinical factor and existing methods based on CT images are insufficiently effective in diagnosing LN metastasis. A more efficient method to predict LN status based on CT image is needed. Methods: In this multicenter retrospective study 411 patients with pathologically confirmed ESCC were registered from two hospitals. Quantitative image features including handcrafted- computer vision-CV- and deep-features were extracted from preoperative arterial phase CT images for each patient. A handcrafted- CV- and deep-radiomics signature were built respectively. Then multiple radiomics models were constructed by merging independent clinical risk factor into radiomics signatures. The performance of models were evaluated with respect to the discrimination calibration and clinical usefulness. Finally an independent external validation cohort was used to validate the models predictive performance. Results: Five seven and nine features were selected for building handcrafted- CV- and deep-radiomics signatures from extracted features respectively. Those signatures were statistically significant different between LN-positive and LN-negative patients in all cohorts p < 0.001. The developed multiple level CT radiomics model that integrates multiple radiomics signatures with clinical risk factor was superior to traditional clinical factors and the results reported by existing methods and achieved satisfactory discrimination performance with C-statistic of 0.875 in development cohort 0.874 in internal validation cohort and 0.840 in independent external validation cohort. Nomogram and decision curve analysis DCA further confirmed our method may serve as an effective tool for clinicians to evaluate the risk of LN metastasis in patients with ESCC and further choose treatment strategy. Conclusions: The proposed multiple level CT radiomics model which integrate multiple level radiomics features into clinical risk factor can be used for preoperative predicting LN metastasis of patients with ESCC." Multiple Level CT Radiomics Features Preoperatively Predict Lymph Node Metastasis in Esophageal Cancer: A Multicentre Retrospective Study.