Resting-state functional MRI R-fMRI studies have demonstrated widespread alterations in brain function in patients with major depressive disorder MDD. However a clear and consistent conclusion regarding a repeatable pattern of MDD-relevant alterations is still limited due to the scarcity of large-sample multisite datasets. Here we address this issue by including a large R-fMRI dataset with 1434 participants 709 patients with MDD and 725 healthy controls from five centers in China. Individual functional activity maps that represent very local to long-range connections are computed using the amplitude of low-frequency fluctuations regional homogeneity and distance-related functional connectivity strength. The reproducibility analyses involve different statistical strategies global signal regression across-center consistency clinical variables and sample size. We observed significant hypoactivity in the orbitofrontal sensorimotor and visual cortices and hyperactivity in the frontoparietal cortices in MDD patients compared to the controls. These alterations are not affected by different statistical analysis strategies global signal regression and medication status and are generally reproducible across centers. However these between-group differences are partially influenced by the episode status and the age of disease onset in patients and the brain-clinical variable relationship exhibits poor cross-center reproducibility. Bootstrap analyses reveal that at least 400 subjects in each group are required to replicate significant alterations an extent threshold of P\u202f<\u202f.05 and a height threshold of P\u202f<\u202f.001 at 50% reproducibility. Together these results highlight reproducible patterns of functional alterations in MDD and relevant influencing factors which provides crucial guidance for future neuroimaging studies of this disorder. Reproducibility of functional brain alterations in major depressive disorder: Evidence from a multisite resting-state functional MRI study with 1434 individuals.