Hemiparesis is a symptom of residual weakness in half of the body including the upper extremity which affects the majority of post stroke survivors. Upper limb function is essential for daily life and reduction in movements can lead to tremendous decline in quality of life and independence. Current treatments such as physiotherapy aim to improve motor functions however due to increasing NHS pressure growing recognition on mental health and close scrutiny on disease spending there is an urgent need for new approaches to be developed rapidly and sufficient resources devoted to stroke disease. Fortunately a range of digital technologies has led to revived rehabilitation techniques in captivating and stimulating environments. To gain further insight a meta-analysis literature search was carried out using the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Review and Meta-Analyses PRISMA method. Articles were categorized and pooled into the following groups; pro/anti/neutral for the use of digital technology. Additionally most literature is rationalised by quantitative and qualitative findings. Findings displayed the majority of the inclusive literature is supportive of the use of digital technologies in the rehabilitation of upper extremity following stroke. Overall the review highlights a wide understanding and promise directed into introducing devices into a clinical setting. Analysis of all four categories; 1 Digital Technology 2 Virtual Reality 3 Robotics and 4 Leap Motion displayed varying qualities both-pro and negative across each device. Prevailing developments on use of these technologies highlights an evolutionary and revolutionary step into utilizing digital technologies for rehabilitation purposes due to the vast functional gains and engagement levels experienced by patients. The influx of more commercialised and accessible devices could alter stroke recovery further with initial recommendations for combination therapy utilizing conventional and digital resources. "A Game Changer: The Use of Digital Technologies in the Management of Upper Limb Rehabilitation."