Recently the optimal surface finding OSF and layered optimal graph image segmentation of multiple objects and surfaces LOGISMOS approaches have been reported with applications to medical image segmentation tasks. While providing high levels of performance these approaches may locally fail in the presence of pathology or other local challenges. Due to the image data variability finding a suitable cost function that would be applicable to all image locations may not be feasible. This paper presents a new interactive refinement approach for correcting local segmentation errors in the automated OSF-based segmentation. A hybrid desktop/virtual reality user interface was developed for efficient interaction with the segmentations utilizing state-of-the-art stereoscopic visualization technology and advanced interaction techniques. The user interface allows a natural and interactive manipulation of 3-D surfaces. The approach was evaluated on 30 test cases from 18 CT lung datasets which showed local segmentation errors after employing an automated OSF-based lung segmentation. The performed experiments exhibited significant increase in performance in terms of mean absolute surface distance errors 2.540.75 mm prior to refinement vs. 1.110.43 mm post-refinement p0.001. Speed of the interactions is one of the most important aspects leading to the acceptance or rejection of the approach by users expecting real-time interaction experience. The average algorithm computing time per refinement iteration was 150 ms and the average total user interaction time required for reaching complete operator satisfaction was about 2 min per case. This time was mostly spent on human-controlled manipulation of the object to identify whether additional refinement was necessary and to approve the final segmentation result. The reported principle is generally applicable to segmentation problems beyond lung segmentation in CT scans as long as the underlying segmentation utilizes the OSF framework. The two reported segmentation refinement tools were optimized for lung segmentation and might need some adaptation for other application domains. Lung segmentation refinement based on optimal surface finding utilizing a hybrid desktop/virtual reality user interface.