Graph theory provides a useful framework to study functional brain networks from neuroimaging data. In epilepsy research recent findings suggest that it offers unique insight into the fingerprints of this pathology on brain dynamics. Most studies hitherto have focused on seizure activity during focal epilepsy but less is known about functional epileptic brain networks during interictal activity in frontal focal and generalized epilepsy. Besides it is not clear yet which measures are most suitable to characterize these networks. To address these issues we recorded magnetoencephalographic MEG data using two orthogonal planar gradiometers from 45 subjects from three groups 15 healthy controls 7 males 24\xa0\xa06\xa0years 15 frontal focal 8 male 32\xa0\xa016\xa0years and 15 generalized epileptic 6 male 27\xa0\xa07\xa0years patients during interictal resting state with closed eyes. Then we estimated the total and relative spectral power of the largest principal component of the gradiometers and the degree of phase synchronization between each sensor site in the frequency range 0.5-40\xa0Hz. We further calculated a comprehensive battery of 15 graph-theoretic measures and used the affinity propagation clustering algorithm to elucidate the minimum set of them that fully describe these functional brain networks. The results show that differences in spectral power between the control and the other two groups have a distinctive pattern: generalized epilepsy presents higher total power for all frequencies except the alpha band over a widespread set of sensors; frontal focal epilepsy shows higher relative power in the beta band bilaterally in the fronto-central sensors. Moreover all network indices can be clustered into three groups whose exemplars are the global network efficiency the eccentricity and the synchronizability. Again the patterns of differences were clear: the brain network of the generalized epilepsy patients presented greater efficiency and lower eccentricity than the control subjects for the high frequency bands without a clear topography. Besides the frontal focal epileptic patients showed only reduced eccentricity for the theta band over fronto-temporal and central sensors. These outcomes indicate that functional epileptic brain networks are different to those of healthy subjects during interictal stage at rest with a unique pattern of dissimilarities for each type of epilepsy. Further when properly selected three network indices suffice to provide a comprehensive description of these differences. Yet since such uniqueness in the pattern of differences is also evident in the power spectrum we conclude that the added value of the graph theory approach in this context should not be overestimated. What graph theory actually tells us about resting state interictal MEG epileptic activity.