"A group of European experts reappraised the guidelines on the therapeutic efficacy of repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation rTMS previously published in 2014 Lefaucheur et al. Clin Neurophysiol 2014;125:2150-206. These updated recommendations take into account all rTMS publications including data prior to 2014 as well as currently reviewed literature until the end of 2018. Level A evidence definite efficacy was reached for: high-frequency HF rTMS of the primary motor cortex M1 contralateral to the painful side for neuropathic pain; HF-rTMS of the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex DLPFC using a figure-of-8 or a H1-coil for depression; low-frequency LF rTMS of contralesional M1 for hand motor recovery in the post-acute stage of stroke. Level B evidence probable efficacy was reached for: HF-rTMS of the left M1 or DLPFC for improving quality of life or pain respectively in fibromyalgia; HF-rTMS of bilateral M1 regions or the left DLPFC for improving motor impairment or depression respectively in Parkinsons disease; HF-rTMS of ipsilesional M1 for promoting motor recovery at the post-acute stage of stroke; intermittent theta burst stimulation targeted to the leg motor cortex for lower limb spasticity in multiple sclerosis; HF-rTMS of the right DLPFC in posttraumatic stress disorder; LF-rTMS of the right inferior frontal gyrus in chronic post-stroke non-fluent aphasia; LF-rTMS of the right DLPFC in depression; and bihemispheric stimulation of the DLPFC combining right-sided LF-rTMS or continuous theta burst stimulation and left-sided HF-rTMS or intermittent theta burst stimulation in depression. Level A/B evidence is not reached concerning efficacy of rTMS in any other condition. The current recommendations are based on the differences reached in therapeutic efficacy of real vs. sham rTMS protocols replicated in a sufficient number of independent studies. This does not mean that the benefit produced by rTMS inevitably reaches a level of clinical relevance." Evidence-based guidelines on the therapeutic use of repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation rTMS: An update 2014-2018.