"Even if different dissection tractographic and connectivity studies provided pure anatomical evidences about the optic radiations ORs descriptions of both the anatomical structure and the anatomo-functional relationships of the ORs with the adjacent bundles were not reported. We propose a detailed anatomical and functional study with post mortem dissections and in vivo direct electrical stimulation DES of the OR demonstrating also the relationships with the adjacent eloquent bundles in a neurosurgical connectomic perspective. Six human hemispheres three left three right were dissected after a modified Klinglers preparation. The anatomy of the white matter was analysed according to systematic and topographical surgical perspectives. The anatomical results were correlated to the functional responses collected during three resections of tumours guided by cortico-subcortical DES during awake procedures. We identified two groups of fibres forming the OR. The superior component runs along the lateral wall of the occipital horn the trigone and the supero-medial wall of the temporal horn. The inferior component covers inferiorly the occipital horn and the trigone the lateral wall of the temporal horn and arches antero-medially to form the Meyers Loop. The inferior fronto-occipital fascicle IFOF covers completely the superior OR along its entire course as confirmed by the subcortical DES. The inferior longitudinal fascicle runs in a postero-anterior and inferior direction covering the superior OR posteriorly and the inferior OR anteriorly. The IFOF identification allows the preservation of the superior OR in the anterior temporal resection avoiding post-operative complete hemianopia. The identification of the superior OR during the posterior temporal inferior parietal and occipital resections leads to the preservation of the IFOF and of the eloquent functions it subserves. The accurate knowledge of the OR course and the relationships with the adjacent bundles is crucial to optimize quality of resection and functional outcome." "The course and the anatomo-functional relationships of the optic radiation: a combined study with post mortem dissections and in vivo direct electrical mapping."