Intellect emotion and intentions the major components of the human mentality are neurologically correlated to memory and sensorimotor integration the neuronal system consisting of the amygdale and hypothalamus and motivation and learning respectively. Development of these neuronal processes was evaluated by correlating the pathophysiologies of idiopathic developmental neuropsychiatric disorders and developmental courses of sleep parameters sleep-wake rhythm SWR and locomotion. The memory system and sensory pathways develop by the 9th gestational months. Habituation or dorsal bundle extinction DBE develop after the 34th gestational week. In the first 4 months after birth DBE is consolidated and fine tuning of the primary sensory cortex and its neuronal connection to the unimodal sensory association area along with functional lateralization of the cortex are accomplished. After 4 months restriction of atonia in the REM stage enables the integrative function of the brain and induces synaptogenesis of the cortex around 6 months and locomotion in late infancy by activating the dopaminergic DA neurons induces synaptogenesis of the frontal cortex. Locomotion in early infancy involves functional specialization of the cortex and in childhood with development of biphasic SWR activation of the areas of the prefrontal cortex. Development of emotions reflects in the development of personal communication and the arousal function of the hypothalamus. The former is shown in the mother-child relationship in the first 4 months in communication with adults and playmates in late infancy to early childhood and in development of social relationships with sympathy by the early school age with functional maturation of the orbitofrontal cortex. The latter is demonstrated in the secretion of melatonin during night time by 4 months in the circadian rhythm of body temperature by 8 months and in the secretion of the growth hormone by 4-5 years with synchronization to the SWR modulated by the brainstem aminergic neurons. For this purpose nursing according to the day-night light-dark cycle is essential right from early infancy. The deep cerebellar nuclei involved in learning develop by the 9th gestational month. The DA neurons activated in late infancy modulate the nuclei of the basal ganglia and the association cortex for learning. Motivation starts with activation of the PPN in infancy by crawling which makes DA neurons as the lead. In late childhood DA neurons along with 5HT neurons activate the anterior cingulate area and establish the neuronal process for learning with motivation. Development of intellect emotion and intentions and their neuronal systems.