Purpose To reduce radiotracer requirements for amyloid PET/MRI without sacrificing diagnostic quality by using deep learning methods. Materials and Methods Forty data sets from 39 patients mean age  standard deviation SD 67 years  8 including 16 male patients and 23 female patients mean age 66 years  6 and 68 years  9 respectively who underwent simultaneous amyloid fluorine 18 18F-florbetaben PET/MRI examinations were acquired from March 2016 through October 2017 and retrospectively analyzed. One hundredth of the raw list-mode PET data were randomly chosen to simulate a low-dose 1% acquisition. Convolutional neural networks were implemented with low-dose PET and multiple MR images PET-plus-MR model or with low-dose PET alone PET-only as inputs to predict full-dose PET images. Quality of the synthesized images was evaluated while Bland-Altman plots assessed the agreement of regional standard uptake value ratios SUVRs between image types. Two readers scored image quality on a five-point scale 5 = excellent and determined amyloid status positive or negative. Statistical analyses were carried out to assess the difference of image quality metrics and reader agreement and to determine confidence intervals CIs for reading results. Results The synthesized images especially from the PET-plus-MR model showed marked improvement on all quality metrics compared with the low-dose image. All PET-plus-MR images scored 3 or higher with proportions of images rated greater than 3 similar to those for the full-dose images -10% difference eight of 80 readings 95% CI: -15% -5%. Accuracy for amyloid status was high 71 of 80 readings 89% and similar to intrareader reproducibility of full-dose images 73 of 80 91%. The PET-plus-MR model also had the smallest mean and variance for SUVR difference to full-dose images. Conclusion Simultaneously acquired MRI and ultra-low-dose PET data can be used to synthesize full-dose-like amyloid PET images.  RSNA 2018 Online supplemental material is available for this article. See also the editorial by Catana in this issue. Ultra-Low-Dose 18F-Florbetaben Amyloid PET Imaging Using Deep Learning with Multi-Contrast MRI Inputs.