"The sensorimotor cortex is somatotopically organized to represent the vocal tract articulators such as lips tongue larynx and jaw. How speech and articulatory features are encoded at the subcortical level however remains largely unknown. We analyzed LFP recordings from the subthalamic nucleus STN and simultaneous electrocorticography recordings from the sensorimotor cortex of 11 human subjects 1 female with Parkinsons disease during implantation of deep-brain stimulation DBS electrodes while they read aloud three-phoneme words. The initial phonemes involved either articulation primarily with the tongue coronal consonants or the lips labial consonants. We observed significant increases in high-gamma 60-150 Hz power in both the STN and the sensorimotor cortex that began before speech onset and persisted for the duration of speech articulation. As expected from previous reports in the sensorimotor cortex the primary articulators involved in the production of the initial consonants were topographically represented by high-gamma activity. We found that STN high-gamma activity also demonstrated specificity for the primary articulator although no clear topography was observed. In general subthalamic high-gamma activity varied along the ventral-dorsal trajectory of the electrodes with greater high-gamma power recorded in the dorsal locations of the STN. Interestingly the majority of significant articulator-discriminative activity in the STN occurred before that in sensorimotor cortex. These results demonstrate that articulator-specific speech information is contained within high-gamma activity of the STN but with different spatial and temporal organization compared with similar information encoded in the sensorimotor cortex.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT Clinical and electrophysiological evidence suggest that the subthalamic nucleus STN is involved in speech; however this important basal ganglia node is ignored in current models of speech production. We previously showed that STN neurons differentially encode early and late aspects of speech production but no previous studies have examined subthalamic functional organization for speech articulators. Using simultaneous LFP recordings from the sensorimotor cortex and the STN in patients with Parkinsons disease undergoing deep-brain stimulation surgery we discovered that STN high-gamma activity tracks speech production at the level of vocal tract articulators before the onset of vocalization and often before related cortical encoding." Subthalamic Nucleus and Sensorimotor Cortex Activity During Speech Production.