A brain-computer-interface BCI-based attention training game system has shown promise for treating attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder ADHD children with inattentive symptoms. However little is known about brain network organizational changes underlying behavior improvement following BCI-based training. To cover this gap we aimed to examine the topological alterations of large-scale brain functional networks induced by the 8-week BCI-based attention intervention in ADHD boys using resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging method. Compared to the non-intervention ADHD-NI group the intervention group ADHD-I showed greater reduction of inattention symptoms accompanied with differential brain network reorganizations after training. Specifically the ADHD-NI group had increased functional connectivity FC within the salience/ventral attention network SVN and increased FC between task-positive networks including the SVN dorsal attention DAN somatomotor and executive control network and subcortical regions; in contrast ADHD-I group did not have this pattern. In parallel ADHD-I group had reduced degree centrality and clustering coefficient as well as increased closeness in task-positive and the default mode networks prefrontal regions after the training. More importantly these reduced local functional processing mainly in the SVN were associated with less inattentive/internalizing problems after 8-week BCI-based intervention across ADHD patients. Our findings suggest that the BCI-based attention training facilitates behavioral improvement in ADHD children by reorganizing brain functional network from more regular to more random configurations particularly renormalizing salience network processing. Future long-term longitudinal neuroimaging studies are needed to develop the BCI-based intervention approach to promote brain maturation in ADHD. Brain-computer-interface-based intervention re-normalizes brain functional network topology in children with attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder.