Multiple sclerosis MS is an autoimmune neurological disorder which has impacted health related quality of life HRQoL more intensively than any other neurological disorder. The approaches to improve the health standard in MS patient are still a subject of primary importance in medical practice and seek a lot of experimental exploration. The present review briefly explains the anomaly in neuron anatomy and dysfunction in signal transmission arising in the context with the chronic cerebrospinal venous insufficiency CCSVI a recent hypothesis related with MS pathophysiology. Subsequently it insights brain-machine interface BMI as an alternative approach to improve the HRQoL of MS subjects. Information sources were searched from peer-reviewed data bases Medline BioMed Central PubMed and grey-literature databases for data published in 2000 or later. We also did systemic search in edited books articles in seminar papers reports extracted from newspapers and scientific magazines articles accessed from internet; mostly using PubMed Google search engine and Wikipedia. Out of approximately 178 240 research articles obtained using selected keywords those articles were included in the present study which addresses the latest definitions of HRQol and latest scientific and ethical developments in the research of MS and BMI. The article presented a brief survey of CCSVI mediated MS and BMI-approach as a treatment to serve the patients suffering from disabilities as a result of MS followed by successful precedence of BMI approach. Apart from these the major findings of selected research articles including the development of parameters to define HRQoL types and development of BMIs and its role in interconnecting brain with actuators along with CCSVI being a possible cause of MS have formed the foundations to conclude the findings of the present review article. We propose a perspective BMI approach and promises it holds for future research to improve HRQoL in MS patients. In addition we propose that brain-computer interfaces will be the core of new treatment modalities in the future for MS disabilities. Prospect of brain-machine interface in motor disabilities: the future support for multiple sclerosis patient to improve quality of life.