Single-image super-resolution SR has been widely used in computer vision applications. The reconstruction-based SR methods are mainly based on certain prior terms to regularize the SR problem. However it is very challenging to further improve the SR performance by the conventional design of explicit prior terms. Because of the powerful learning ability deep convolutional neural networks CNNs have been widely used in single-image SR task. However it is difficult to achieve further improvement by only designing the network architecture. In addition most existing deep CNN-based SR methods learn a nonlinear mapping function to directly map low-resolution LR images to desirable high-resolution HR images ignoring the observation models of input images. Inspired by the split Bregman iteration SBI algorithm which is a powerful technique for solving the constrained optimization problems the original SR problem is divided into two subproblems: 1 inversion subproblem and 2 denoising subproblem. Since the inversion subproblem can be regarded as an inversion step to reconstruct an intermediate HR image with sharper edges and finer structures we propose to use deep CNN to capture low-level explicit image profile enhancement prior PEP. Since the denoising subproblem aims to remove the noise in the intermediate image we adopt a simple and effective denoising network to learn implicit image denoising statistics prior DSP. Furthermore the penalty parameter in SBI is adaptively tuned during the iterations for better performance. Finally we also prove the convergence of our method. Thus the deep CNNs are exploited to capture both implicit and explicit image statistics priors. Due to SBI the SR observation model is also leveraged. Consequently it bridges between two popular SR approaches: 1 learning-based method and 2 reconstruction-based method. Experimental results show that the proposed method achieves the state-of-the-art SR results. Learning Image Profile Enhancement and Denoising Statistics Priors for Single-Image Super-Resolution.