"Cross-sectional imaging based on navigation and virtual reality planning tools are well-established in the surgical routine in orthopedic surgery and neurosurgery. In various procedures they have achieved a significant clinical relevance and efficacy and have enhanced the disciplines resection capabilities. In abdominal surgery however these tools have gained little attraction so far. Even with the advantage of fast and high resolution cross-sectional liver and pancreas imaging it remains unclear whether 3D planning and interactive planning tools might increase precision and safety of liver and pancreas surgery. The inability to simply transfer the methodology from orthopedic or neurosurgery is mainly a result of intraoperative organ movements and shifting and corresponding technical difficulties in the on-line applicability of presurgical cross sectional imaging data. For the interactive planning of liver surgery three systems partly exist in daily routine: HepaVision2 MeVis GmbH Bremen LiverLive Navidez Ltd Slovenia and OrgaNicer German Cancer Research Center Heidelberg. All these systems have realized a half- or full-automatic liver-segmentation procedure to visualize liver segments vessel trees resected volumes or critical residual organ volumes either for preoperative planning or intraoperative visualization. Acquisition of data is mainly based on computed tomography. Three-dimensional navigation for intraoperative surgical guidance with ultrasound is part of the clinical testing. There are only few reports about the transfer of the visualization of the pancreas probably caused by the difficulties with the segmentation routine due to inflammation or organ-exceeding tumor growth. With this paper we like to evaluate and demonstrate the present status of software planning tools and pathways for future pre- and intraoperative resection planning in liver and pancreas surgery." The role of 3-D imaging and computer-based postprocessing for surgery of the liver and pancreas.