"Computer-based self-instructional programs are frequently promoted as means to augment or replace the traditional anatomy curricula taught in medical schools. These programs may range from static slide shows to fully immersive virtual environments. However the impact of these learning technologies on knowledge acquisition and their comparative cost/benefit to education remain unclear. As a consequence we are embarking on a series of experiments to compare knowledge acquisition and the meaningful use of information among students who are learning anatomy using one of two different computer-based self-instructional formats. These studies will be based on a specially developed learning module on basic lung anatomy; they will utilize a variety of assessment tools to measure factual knowledge conceptual understanding of spatial-anatomic relationships and the ability to apply newly acquired knowledge of anatomy to clinical problem-solving scenarios. The primary object of this paper is to describe the design and development of the underlying test module and to outline the two computer-based formats that will be evaluated. The virtual reality VR environment UCSDs Anatomic VisualizeR provides dynamic access to 3-dimensional polygonal models of the lesson content and supports student-centered exploration and learning. The multimedia environment Microsoft PowerPoint provides a structured presentation of the lesson content and illustrates important anatomic structures through the use of 2-dimensional images derived by screen captures of models available in the VR learning module. This paper also provides an overview of the first experiment in the series a pilot study using first-year medical students without previous participation in a medical school anatomy curriculum. For this study students will be prospectively randomized into two groups each group learning the lung anatomy lesson using one of the computer-based formats described. Immediate knowledge retention will be measured by asking students to complete the assessment instrument immediately after completing their learning module. The results of the pilot study will be used to refine and improve the design of the remainder of studies planned in this experimental series." Development of an experimental paradigm in which to examine human learning using two computer-based formats.