Splenomegaly segmentation on computed tomography CT abdomen anatomical scans is essential for identifying spleen biomarkers and has applications for quantitative assessment in patients with liver and spleen disease. Deep convolutional neural network automated segmentation has shown promising performance for splenomegaly segmentation. However manual labeling of abdominal structures is resource intensive so the labeled abdominal imaging data are rare resources despite their essential role in algorithm training. Hence the number of annotated labels e.g. spleen only are typically limited with a single study. However with the development of data sharing techniques more and more publicly available labeled cohorts are available from different resources. A key new challenging is to co-learn from the multi-source data even with different numbers of labeled abdominal organs in each study. Thus it is appealing to design a co-learning strategy to train a deep network from heterogeneously labeled scans. In this paper we propose a new deep convolutional neural network DCNN based method that integrates heterogeneous multi-resource labeled cohorts for splenomegaly segmentation. To enable the proposed approach a novel loss function is introduced based on the Dice similarity coefficient to adaptively learn multi-organ information from different resources. Three cohorts were employed in our experiments the first cohort 98 CT scans has only splenomegaly labels while the second training cohort 100 CT scans has 15 distinct anatomical labels with normal spleens. A separate independent cohort consisting of 19 splenomegaly CT scans with labeled spleen was used as testing cohort. The proposed method achieved the highest median Dice similarity coefficient value 0.94 which is superior p-value<0.01 against each other method to the baselines of multi-atlas segmentation 0.86 SS-Net segmentation with only spleen labels 0.90 and U-Net segmentation with multi-organ training 0.91. Our approach for adapting the loss function and training structure is not specific to the abdominal context and may be beneficial in other situations where datasets with varied label sets are available. Improving Splenomegaly Segmentation by Learning from Heterogeneous Multi-Source Labels.