Variations in alpha rhythm have a significant role in perception and attention. Recently alpha decrease has been associated with externally directed attention especially in the visual domain whereas alpha increase has been related to internal processing such as mental arithmetic. However the role of alpha oscillations and how the different components of a task processing of external stimuli internal manipulation/representation and task demand interact to affect alpha power are still unclear. Here we investigate how alpha power is differently modulated by attentional tasks depending both on task difficulty less/more demanding task and direction of attention internal/external. To this aim we designed two experiments that differently manipulated these aspects. Experiment 1 outside Virtual Reality VR involved two tasks both requiring internal and external attentional components intake of visual items for their internal manipulation but with different internal task demands arithmetic vs. reading. Experiment 2 took advantage of the VR mimicking an aircraft cabin interior to manipulate attention direction: it included a condition of VR immersion only characterized by visual external attention and a condition of a purely mental arithmetic task during VR immersion requiring neglect of sensory stimuli. Results show that: 1 In line with previous studies visual external attention caused a significant alpha decrease especially in parieto-occipital regions; 2 Alpha decrease was significantly larger during the more demanding arithmetic task when the task was driven by external visual stimuli; 3 Alpha dramatically increased during the purely mental task in VR immersion whereby the external stimuli had no relation with the task. Our results suggest that alpha power is crucial to isolate a subject from the environment and move attention from external to internal cues. Moreover they emphasize that the emerging use of VR associated with EEG may have important implications to study brain rhythms and support the design of artificial systems. EEG Alpha Power Is Modulated by Attentional Changes during Cognitive Tasks and Virtual Reality Immersion.