More research is needed in otolaryngology telemedicine but it would be a mistake to stop at only determining if telemedicine is as good as an in-person exam. The digital image recorded in a telemedicine encounter can be manipulated to increase diagnostic information not currently available. Radiologists currently take a chest radiograph in which a chest mass or the tip of an nasogastric tube is difficult to visualize and by inverting the gray scale or viewing other digital manipulations of that image the mass or tube tip becomes obvious. Examples in otolaryngology might include images of the larynx manipulated to better demonstrate the inflamed tissue of reflux or images of the tympanic membrane manipulated to better demonstrate early retraction. Despite dramatic and likely continued decreases equipment cost is still an issue. Current research points to good consumer acceptance and certainly with each new generation the technology is more readily accepted. As Nesbitt 4 points out it is certainly not difficult to look to the future and see ubiquitous broadband with video as common as telephone or even extreme broadband enabling robotics and virtual reality TV with three-dimensional touch. Robotics and genomics will eventually play a greater role in telemedicine and our lives in general. Applications for remote diagnosis in biologic warfare defense and homeland security are currently raising interest in telemedicine. Telemedicine will be combined with new technological advances such as virtual "fly-through" computerized axial tomography examinations. Instead of performing an exploratory tympanotomy surgeons will use computer programs to "fly through" and examine all aspects of a patient\s middle or even inner ear. Spectral imaging of the eardrum larynx or oropharynx will immediately identify bacteria without cultures or gram stain and potential malignancy without biopsy. By measuring fluorescence emitted from an oropharynx illuminated with a specific visible or nonvisible light spectrum spectral imaging will be able to provide instant identification of bacteria or evidence of malignant changes. The underlying principles of a successful business model must continue to be applied with the most critical ingredient for telemedicine\s success being the filling of specific health care needs. As long as the need is there telemedicine in otolaryngology will advance. Telemedicine in otolaryngology.