"Object retrieval plays an increasingly important role in video surveillance digital marketing e-commerce etc. It is facing challenges such as large-scale datasets imbalanced data viewpoint cluster background and fine-grained details attributes. This paper has proposed a model to integrate object ontology a local multitask deep neural network local MDNN and an imbalanced data solver to take advantages and overcome the shortcomings of deep learning network models to improve the performance of the large-scale object retrieval system from the coarse-grained level categories to the fine-grained level attributes. Our proposed coarse-to-fine object retrieval CFOR system can be robust and resistant to the challenges listed above. To the best of our knowledge the new main point of our CFOR system is the power of mutual support of object ontology a local MDNN and an imbalanced data solver in a unified system. Object ontology supports the exploitation of the inner-group correlations to improve the system performance in category classification attribute classification and conducting training flow and retrieval flow to save computational costs in the training stage and retrieval stage on large-scale datasets respectively. A local MDNN supports linking object ontology to the raw data and an imbalanced data solver based on Matthews correlation coefficient MCC addresses that the imbalance of data has contributed effectively to increasing the quality of object ontology realization without adjusting network architecture and data augmentation. In order to evaluate the performance of the CFOR system we experimented on the DeepFashion dataset. This paper has shown that our local MDNN framework based on the pretrained NASNet architecture has achieved better performance 14.2% higher in recall rate compared to single-task learning STL in the attribute learning task; it has also shown that our model with an imbalanced data solver has achieved better performance 5.14% higher in recall rate for fewer data attributes compared to models that do not take this into account. Moreover MAP@30 hovers 0.815 in retrieval on an average of 35 imbalanced fashion attributes." Large-Scale Coarse-to-Fine Object Retrieval Ontology and Deep Local Multitask Learning.