Sudden sensorineural hearing loss SSNHL is generally defined as sensorineural hearing loss of 30\xa0dB or greater over at least three contiguous audiometric frequencies and within a three-day period. This hearing loss is usually unilateral and can be associated with tinnitus and vertigo. The pathogenesis of unilateral sudden sensorineural hearing loss is still unknown and the alterations in the functional connectivity are suspected to involve one possible pathogenesis. Despite scarce findings with respect to alterations in brain functional networks in unilateral sudden sensorineural hearing loss the alterations of the whole brain functional connectome and whether these alterations were already in existence in the acute period remains unknown. The aim of this study was to investigate the alterations of brain functional connectome in two large samples of unilateral sudden sensorineural hearing loss patients and to investigate the correlation between unilateral sudden sensorineural hearing loss characteristics and changes in the functional network properties. Pure tone audiometry was performed to assess hearing ability. Abnormal changes in the peripheral auditory system were examined using conventional magnetic resonance imaging. The graph theoretical network analysis method was used to detect brain connectome alterations in unilateral sudden sensorineural hearing loss. Compared with the control groups both groups of unilateral SSNHL patients exhibited a significantly increased clustering coefficient global efficiency and local efficiency but a significantly decreased characteristic path length. In addition the primary increased nodal strength e.g. nodal betweenness hubs was observed in several regions primarily including the limbic and paralimbic systems and in the auditory network brain areas. These findings suggest that the alteration of network organization already exists in unilateral sudden sensorineural hearing loss patients within the acute period and that the functional connectome of unilateral SSNHL patients is characterized by a shift toward small-worldization. Additionally we hope that these findings will help to elucidate unilateral SSNHL through a new research perspective and provide insight for the potential pathophysiology of unilateral SSNHL. Disrupted functional brain connectome in unilateral sudden sensorineural hearing loss.