"In this study we investigated changes in resting state networks RSNs in patients with gliomas located in the left hemisphere and its relation to cognitive function. We hypothesized that long distance connection especially between hemispheres would be affected by the presence of the tumor. We further hypothesized that these changes would correlate with or reflect cognitive changes observed in patients with gliomas. Resting state functional MRI datasets from 12 patients and 12 healthy controls were used in the analysis. The tumors effect on three well-known RSNs including the default mode network DMN executive control network ECN and salience network SN identified using independent component analysis were investigated using dual regression analysis. Scores of neuropsychometric testing WAIS-III and WMS-R were also compared. Compared to the healthy control group the patient group showed significant decrease in functional connectivity in the right angular gyrus/inferior parietal lobe of the ventral DMN and in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex of the left ECN whereas a significant increase in connectivity in the right ECN was observed in the right parietal lobe. Changes in connectivity in the right ECN correlated with spatial memory while that on the left ECN correlated with attention. Connectivity changes in the ventral DMN correlated with attention working memory full IQ and verbal IQ measures. Although the tumors were localized in the left side of the brain changes in connectivity were observed in the contralateral side. Moreover these changes correlated with some aspects of cognitive function indicating that patients with gliomas may undergo cognitive changes even in the absence of or before the onset of major symptoms. Evaluation of resting state networks could be helpful in advancing our hodological understanding of brain function in glioma cases." Evaluation of resting state networks in patients with gliomas: connectivity changes in the unaffected side and its relation to cognitive function.