"We propose a new deep learning-based approach to provide more accurate whole-body PET/MRI attenuation correction than is possible with the Dixon-based 4-segment method. We use activity and attenuation maps estimated using the maximum-likelihood reconstruction of activity and attenuation MLAA algorithm as inputs to a convolutional neural network CNN to learn a CT-derived attenuation map. Methods: The whole-body 18F-FDG PET/CT scan data of 100 cancer patients 38 men and 62 women; age 57.3  14.1 y were retrospectively used for training and testing the CNN. A modified U-net was trained to predict a CT-derived -map -CT from the MLAA-generated activity distribution -MLAA and -map -MLAA. We used 1.3 million patches derived from 60 patients data for training the CNN data of 20 others were used as a validation set to prevent overfitting and the data of the other 20 were used as a test set for the CNN performance analysis. The attenuation maps generated using the proposed method -CNN -MLAA and 4-segment method -segment were compared with the -CT a ground truth. We also compared the voxelwise correlation between the activity images reconstructed using ordered-subset expectation maximization with the -maps and the SUVs of primary and metastatic bone lesions obtained by drawing regions of interest on the activity images. Results: The CNN generates less noisy attenuation maps and achieves better bone identification than MLAA. The average Dice similarity coefficient for bone regions between -CNN and -CT was 0.77 which was significantly higher than that between -MLAA and -CT 0.36. Also the CNN result showed the best pixel-by-pixel correlation with the CT-based results and remarkably reduced differences in activity maps in comparison to CT-based attenuation correction. Conclusion: The proposed deep neural network produced a more reliable attenuation map for 511-keV photons than the 4-segment method currently used in whole-body PET/MRI studies." Generation of PET Attenuation Map for Whole-Body Time-of-Flight 18F-FDG PET/MRI Using a Deep Neural Network Trained with Simultaneously Reconstructed Activity and Attenuation Maps.