In order to obtain real-time controlling dynamics in air traffic system a framework is proposed to introduce and process air traffic control ATC speech via radiotelephony communication. An automatic speech recognition ASR and controlling instruction understanding CIU-based pipeline is designed to convert the ATC speech into ATC related elements i.e. controlling intent and parameters. A correction procedure is also proposed to improve the reliability of the information obtained by the proposed framework. In the ASR model acoustic model AM pronunciation model PM and phoneme- and word-based language model LM are proposed to unify multilingual ASR into one model. In this work based on their tasks the AM and PM are defined as speech recognition and machine translation problems respectively. Two-dimensional convolution and average-pooling layers are designed to solve special challenges of ASR in ATC. An encoderdecoder architecture-based neural network is proposed to translate phoneme labels into word labels which achieves the purpose of ASR. In the CIU model a recurrent neural network-based joint model is proposed to detect the controlling intent and label the controlling parameters in which the two tasks are solved in one network to enhance the performance with each other based on ATC communication rules. The ATC speech is now converted into ATC related elements by the proposed ASR and CIU model. To further improve the accuracy of the sensing framework a correction procedure is proposed to revise minor mistakes in ASR decoding results based on the flight information such as flight plan ADS-B. The proposed models are trained using real operating data and applied to a civil aviation airport in China to evaluate their performance. Experimental results show that the proposed framework can obtain real-time controlling dynamics with high performance only 4% word-error rate. Meanwhile the decoding efficiency can also meet the requirement of real-time applications i.e. an average 0.147 real time factor. With the proposed framework and obtained traffic dynamics current ATC applications can be accomplished with higher accuracy. In addition the proposed ASR pipeline has high reusability which allows us to apply it to other controlling scenes and languages with minor changes. Real-time Controlling Dynamics Sensing in Air Traffic System.