Background Cardiac MRI is limited by long acquisition times yet faster acquisition of smaller-matrix images reduces spatial detail. Deep learning DL might enable both faster acquisition and higher spatial detail via super-resolution. Purpose To explore the feasibility of using DL to enhance spatial detail from small-matrix MRI acquisitions and evaluate its performance against that of conventional image upscaling methods. Materials and Methods Short-axis cine cardiac MRI examinations performed between January 2012 and December 2018 at one institution were retrospectively collected for algorithm development and testing. Convolutional neural networks CNNs a form of DL were trained to perform super resolution in image space by using synthetically generated low-resolution data. There were 70% 20% and 10% of examinations allocated to training validation and test sets respectively. CNNs were compared against bicubic interpolation and Fourier-based zero padding by calculating the structural similarity index SSIM between high-resolution ground truth and each upscaling method. Means and standard deviations of the SSIM were reported and statistical significance was determined by using the Wilcoxon signed-rank test. For evaluation of clinical performance left ventricular volumes were measured and statistical significance was determined by using the paired Student t test. Results For CNN training and retrospective analysis 400 MRI scans from 367 patients mean age 48 years  18; 214 men were included. All CNNs outperformed zero padding and bicubic interpolation at upsampling factors from two to 64 P < .001. CNNs outperformed zero padding on more than 99.2% of slices 9828 of 9907. In addition 10 patients mean age 51 years  22; seven men were prospectively recruited for super-resolution MRI. Super-resolved low-resolution images yielded left ventricular volumes comparable to those from full-resolution images P > .05 and super-resolved full-resolution images appeared to further enhance anatomic detail. Conclusion Deep learning outperformed conventional upscaling methods and recovered high-frequency spatial information. Although training was performed only on short-axis cardiac MRI examinations the proposed strategy appeared to improve quality in other imaging planes. Deep Learning Single-Frame and Multiframe Super-Resolution for Cardiac MRI.