Effective treatments for Coronavirus Disease 2019 COVID-19\xa0outbreak are urgently needed. While anti-viral approaches and\xa0vaccines are being considered\xa0immediate countermeasures are unavailable. The aim of this article is to outline a perspective on the pathophysiology of COVID-19 in the context of the currently available clinical data published in the literature. This article appreciates clinical data\xa0published on COVID-19 in the context of another respiratory illness - high altitude pulmonary edema HAPE. Both conditions have significant similarities that portend pathophysiologic trajectories.\xa0Following this\xa0potential treatment options\xa0emerge. Both COVID-19 and HAPE\xa0exhibit a decreased ratio of arterial oxygen partial pressure to fractional inspired oxygen\xa0with concomitant hypoxia and tachypnea. There also appears to be a tendency for low carbon dioxide levels in both as well. Radiologic findings\xa0of ground glass opacities are present in up to 86% of patients with COVID-19 in addition to patchy infiltrates. Patients with HAPE also exhibit patchy infiltrates throughout the pulmonary fields often in an asymmetric pattern\xa0and CT findings reveal increased lung markings and ground glass-like changes as well. Widespread ground-glass opacities are most commonly a manifestation of hydrostatic pulmonary edema. Similarly elevated fibrinogen levels in both conditions are likely an\xa0epiphenomenon of edema formation\xa0rather than coagulation activation. Autopsy results of a COVID-19 fatality revealed bilateral diffuse alveolar damage associated with pulmonary edema pro-inflammatory concentrates and indications of early-phase acute respiratory distress syndrome ARDS. HAPE itself is initially caused by an increase in pulmonary capillary pressure\xa0and induces altered alveolar-capillary permeability via high pulmonary artery hydrostatic pressures that lead to a protein-rich and mildly hemorrhagic edema. It appears that COVID-19\xa0and HAPE\xa0both discretely converge on ARDS. In light of this a countermeasure that has been shown to be effective in the analogous condition of HAPE is Acetazolamide. Acetazolamide has a myriad of effects on different organ systems potently reduces hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction improves minute ventilation and expired vital capacity.\xa0Other therapeutics to consider that are also directed towards decreased pulmonary pressure include Nifedipine and Phosphodiesterase inhibitors. This review describes COVID-19 in parallel to HAPE. Deranged respiratory parameters that are present in both conditions are highlighted. The utilization of medications found to be effective in HAPE for the treatment of COVID-19 is proposed. Given the medical emergency of a growing contagion and the thousands of lives at stake expedient attempts to improve survival are needed. Acetazolamide Nifedipine and Phosphodiesterase inhibitors\xa0may be potential\xa0countermeasures. Acetazolamide Nifedipine and Phosphodiesterase Inhibitors: Rationale for Their Utilization as Adjunctive Countermeasures in the Treatment of Coronavirus Disease 2019 COVID-19.