Part of the process of EEG microstate estimation involves clustering EEG channel data at the global field power GFP maxima very commonly using a modified K-means approach. Clustering has also been done deterministically despite there being uncertainties in multiple stages of the microstate analysis including the GFP peak definition the clustering itself and in the post-clustering assignment of microstates back onto the EEG timecourse of interest. We perform a fully probabilistic microstate clustering and labeling to account for these sources of uncertainty using the closest probabilistic analog to KM called Fuzzy C-means FCM. We train softmax multi-layer perceptrons MLPs using the KM and FCM-inferred cluster assignments as target labels to then allow for probabilistic labeling of the full EEG data instead of the usual correlation-based deterministic microstate label assignment typically used. We assess the merits of the probabilistic analysis vs. the deterministic approaches in EEG data recorded while participants perform real or imagined motor movements from a publicly available data set of 109 subjects. Though FCM group template maps that are almost topographically identical to KM were found there is considerable uncertainty in the subsequent assignment of microstate labels. In general imagined motor movements are less predictable on a time point-by-time point basis possibly reflecting the more exploratory nature of the brain state during imagined compared to during real motor movements. We find that some relationships may be more evident using FCM than using KM and propose that future microstate analysis should preferably be performed probabilistically rather than deterministically especially in situations such as with brain computer interfaces where both training and applying models of microstates need to account for uncertainty. Probabilistic neural network-driven microstate assignment has a number of advantages that we have discussed which are likely to be further developed and exploited in future studies. In conclusion probabilistic clustering and a probabilistic neural network-driven approach to microstate analysis is likely to better model and reveal details and the variability hidden in current deterministic and binarized microstate assignment and analyses. Modeling Uncertainties in EEG Microstates: Analysis of Real and Imagined Motor Movements Using Probabilistic Clustering-Driven Training of Probabilistic Neural Networks.