"Mechanistic models MMs have served as causal pathway analysis and decision-support tools within animal production systems for decades. Such models quantitatively define how a biological system works based on causal relationships and use that cumulative biological knowledge to generate predictions and recommendations in practice and generate/evaluate hypotheses in research. Their limitations revolve around obtaining sufficiently accurate inputs user training and accuracy/precision of predictions on-farm. The new wave in digitalization technologies may negate some of these challenges. New data-driven DD modelling methods such as machine learning ML and deep learning DL examine patterns in data to produce accurate predictions forecasting classification of animals etc.. The deluge of sensor data and new self-learning modelling techniques may address some of the limitations of traditional MM approaches - access to input data e.g. sensors and on-farm calibration. However most of these new methods lack transparency in the reasoning behind predictions in contrast to MM that have historically been used to translate knowledge into wisdom. The objective of this paper is to propose means to hybridize these two seemingly divergent methodologies to advance the models we use in animal production systems and support movement towards truly knowledge-based precision agriculture. In order to identify potential niches for models in animal production of the future a cross-species dairy swine and poultry examination of the current state of the art in MM and new DD methodologies ML DL analytics is undertaken. We hypothesize that there are several ways via which synergy may be achieved to advance both our predictive capabilities and system understanding being: 1 building and utilizing data streams e.g. intake rumination behaviour rumen sensors activity sensors environmental sensors cameras and near IR to apply MM in real-time and/or with new resolution and capabilities; 2 hybridization of MM and DD approaches where for example a ML framework is augmented by MM-generated parameters or predicted outcomes and 3 hybridization of the MM and DD approaches where biological bounds are placed on parameters within a MM framework and the DD system parameterizes the MM for individual animals farms or other such clusters of data. As animal systems modellers we should expand our toolbox to explore new DD approaches and big data to find opportunities to increase understanding of biological systems find new patterns in data and move the field towards intelligent knowledge-based precision agriculture systems." Review: Synergy between mechanistic modelling and data-driven models for modern animal production systems in the era of big data.