"Objective: To identify the underlying intrinsic functional connectome changes in patients with alcohol dependence. Methods: A functional connectivity density FCD analysis was used to report on the functional connectivity changes in 24 male patients with alcohol dependence age 47.83  6.93 years and 24 healthy male subjects age 47.67  6.99 years. We defined the voxels with a correlated threshold of r > 0.25 inside their neighborhood radius sphere  6 mm as shortFCD and radius sphere > 6 mm as longFCD. We repeated the network analysis using a range of correlation r thresholds r = 0.30 0.35 0.40 0.45 0.50 0.6 and 0.75 to determine whether between-group differences were substantially affected by the selection of the different R-value thresholds used. A ROC curve was used to test the ability of the FCD in discriminating between the two groups. Pearsons correlation was used to evaluate the relationships between the FCD differences in brain areas and demographic characteristics. Results: The covered differences in brain areas in binarized shortFCD were larger than binarized longFCD in both groups. The intra-group FCD differences did not depend on the selection of different thresholds used. Patients with alcohol dependence were associated with the longFCD deficit in the cerebellum posterior lobe and shortFCD deficit in the ventral system of the visual pathway and increased shortFCD in the left precentral gyrus right salience network and right cingulate gyrus. A ROC curve demonstrated that these specific brain areas alone discriminated between the two groups with a high degree of sensitivity and specificity. In the alcohol dependence group the cerebellum posterior lobe visual association cortex and the salience network displayed significant correlations with demographic characteristics. Conclusions: The shortFCD analysis was more sensitive than the longFCD analysis in finding differences in the brain areas. The ventral visual pathway-cerebellar circuit deficit appeared to be altered in patients with alcohol dependence." Ventral Visual Pathway-Cerebellar Circuit Deficits in Alcohol Dependence: Long- and Short-Range Functional Connectivity Density Study.