"Electroencephalographic EEG recordings generate an electrical map of the human brain that are useful for clinical inspection of patients and in biomedical smart Internet-of-Things IoT and Brain-Computer Interface BCI applications. From a signal processing perspective EEGs yield a nonlinear and nonstationary multivariate representation of the underlying neural circuitry interactions. In this paper a novel multi-modal Machine Learning ML based approach is proposed to integrate EEG engineered features for automatic classification of brain states. EEGs are acquired from neurological patients with Mild Cognitive Impairment MCI or Alzheimers disease AD and the aim is to discriminate Healthy Control HC subjects from patients. Specifically in order to effectively cope with nonstationarities 19-channels EEG signals are projected into the time-frequency TF domain by means of the Continuous Wavelet Transform CWT and a set of appropriate features denoted as CWT features are extracted from   1 2  EEG sub-bands. Furthermore to exploit nonlinear phase-coupling information of EEG signals higher order statistics HOS are extracted from the bispectrum BiS representation. BiS generates a second set of features denoted as BiS features which are also evaluated in the five EEG sub-bands. The CWT and BiS features are fed into a number of ML classifiers to perform both 2-way AD vs. HC AD vs. MCI MCI vs. HC and 3-way AD vs. MCI vs. HC classifications. As an experimental benchmark a balanced EEG dataset that includes 63 AD 63 MCI and 63 HC is analyzed. Comparative results show that when the concatenation of CWT and BiS features denoted as multi-modal CWT+BiS features is used as input the Multi-Layer Perceptron MLP classifier outperforms all other models specifically the Autoencoder AE Logistic Regression LR and Support Vector Machine SVM. Consequently our proposed multi-modal ML scheme can be considered a viable alternative to state-of-the-art computationally intensive deep learning approaches." A novel multi-modal machine learning based approach for automatic classification of EEG recordings in dementia.