"The acquisition of a conditioned fear response is adaptive as it enables the organism to appropriately respond to predictors of aversive events. Consequently the absence of predictive cues can be used as a signal for safety. We aimed to study whether deficient fear conditioning might lead to maladaptive fear. Following previous work we predicted that failure to learn the CS-US association would result in higher contextual fear and that participants who failed to learn would tend to exhibit higher trait anxiety. Conditioning took place in a virtual environment with two contexts. In one of the two contexts offset of a CS light was associated with a shock. Each participant visited two places a house and an apartment in each of 12 blocks. In one of these places shocks were administered at the offset of an 8-s period of lights on CS. The results showed that half of the participants demonstrated differential shock expectancy between situations in the shock context in which the CS was present versus absent. This indicates that these participants learned the contingencies between the shocks and both the context and the light CS. In contrast the other half of the participants learned only the association with the context. As predicted learning the CS-US contingency resulted in reduced self-reported fear in the absence of the CS in the danger context compared to the presence of the CS. On the other hand participants who failed to learn the association displayed a sustained aversive state throughout the duration of the danger context. Skin conductance measures confirmed this pattern of results. Fear-potentiated startle during the threat context compared to the safe context was significant in both groups while startle was only potentiated during the CS in the threat context in the group that learned the CS association trend-level significant. Finally scores on Spielbergers self-report scale of trait anxiety tended to be higher in the group of participants who did not learn the CS-shock association in the danger context compared to participants who did. In conclusion these results confirm higher contextual fear in participants who did not acquire a conditioned response to the cue in comparison to participants who did. Also virtual reality contexts provide a useful tool for the study of context conditioning." Failure to condition to a cue is associated with sustained contextual fear.