The dynamic nature of functional brain networks is being increasingly recognized in cognitive neuroscience and methods to analyse such time-varying networks in EEG/MEG data are required. In this work we propose a pipeline to characterize time-varying networks in single-subject EEG task-related data and further evaluate its validity on both simulated and experimental datasets. Pre-processing is done to remove channel-wise and trial-wise differences in activity. Functional networks are estimated from short non-overlapping time windows within each "trial" using a sparse-MVAR Multi-Variate Auto-Regressive model. Functional "states" are then identified by partitioning the entire space of functional networks into a small number of groups/symbols via k-means clustering.The multi-trial sequence of symbols is then described by a Markov Model MM. We show validity of this pipeline on realistic electrode-level simulated EEG data by demonstrating its ability to discriminate "trials" from two experimental conditions in a range of scenarios. We then apply it to experimental data from two individuals using a Brain-Computer Interface BCI via a P300 oddball task. Using just the Markov Model parameters we obtain statistically significant discrimination between target and non-target trials. The functional networks characterizing each \state\ were also highly similar between the two individuals. This work marks the first application of the Markov Model framework to infer time-varying networks from EEG/MEG data. Due to the pre-processing results from the pipeline are orthogonal to those from conventional ERP averaging or a typical EEG microstate analysis. The results provide powerful proof-of-concept for a Markov model-based approach to analyzing the data paving the way for its use to track rapid changes in interaction patterns as a task is being performed. MATLAB code for the entire pipeline has been made available. Markov Model-Based Method to Analyse Time-Varying Networks in EEG Task-Related Data.