Identification of cancer subtypes plays an important role in revealing useful insights into disease pathogenesis and advancing personalized therapy. The recent development of high-throughput sequencing technologies has enabled the rapid collection of multi-platform genomic data e.g. gene expression miRNA expression and DNA methylation for the same set of tumor samples. Although numerous integrative clustering approaches have been developed to analyze cancer data few of them are particularly designed to exploit both deep intrinsic statistical properties of each input modality and complex cross-modality correlations among multi-platform input data. In this paper we propose a new machine learning model called multimodal deep belief network DBN to cluster cancer patients from multi-platform observation data. In our integrative clustering framework relationships among inherent features of each single modality are first encoded into multiple layers of hidden variables and then a joint latent model is employed to fuse common features derived from multiple input modalities. A practical learning algorithm called contrastive divergence CD is applied to infer the parameters of our multimodal DBN model in an unsupervised manner. Tests on two available cancer datasets show that our integrative data analysis approach can effectively extract a unified representation of latent features to capture both intra- and cross-modality correlations and identify meaningful disease subtypes from multi-platform cancer data. In addition our approach can identify key genes and miRNAs that may play distinct roles in the pathogenesis of different cancer subtypes. Among those key miRNAs we found that the expression level of miR-29a is highly correlated with survival time in ovarian cancer patients. These results indicate that our multimodal DBN based data analysis approach may have practical applications in cancer pathogenesis studies and provide useful guidelines for personalized cancer therapy. Integrative Data Analysis of Multi-Platform Cancer Data with a Multimodal Deep Learning Approach.