Neuromonitoring in patients with severe brain trauma and stroke is often limited to intracranial pressure ICP; advanced neuroscience intensive care units may also monitor brain oxygenation partial pressure of brain tissue oxygen PbtO2 electroencephalogram EEG cerebral blood flow CBF or neurochemistry. For example cortical spreading depolarizations CSDs recorded by electrocorticography ECoG are associated with delayed cerebral ischemia after subarachnoid hemorrhage and are an attractive target for novel therapeutic approaches. However to better understand pathophysiologic relations and realize the potential of multimodal monitoring a common platform for data collection and integration is needed. We have developed a multimodal system that integrates clinical research and imaging data into a single research and development R&D platform. Our system is adapted from the widely used BCI2000 a brain-computer interface tool which is written in the C++ language and supports over 20 data acquisition systems. It is optimized for real-time analysis of multimodal data using advanced time and frequency domain analyses and is extensible for research development using a combination of C++ MATLAB and Python languages. Continuous streams of raw and processed data including BP blood pressure ICP PtiO2 CBF ECoG EEG and patient video are stored in an open binary data format. Selected events identified in raw e.g. ICP or processed e.g. CSD measures are displayed graphically can trigger alarms or can be sent to researchers or clinicians via text message. For instance algorithms for automated detection of CSD have been incorporated and processed ECoG signals are projected onto three-dimensional 3D brain models based on patient magnetic resonance imaging MRI and computed tomographic CT scans allowing real-time correlation of pathoanatomy and cortical function. This platform will provide clinicians and researchers with an advanced tool to investigate pathophysiologic relationships and novel measures of cerebral status as well as implement treatment algorithms based on such multimodal measures. COSBID-M3: a platform for multimodal monitoring data collection and research in neurocritical care.