"Pre-prepared concept maps that organise knowledge in a non-linear fashion appeal to a variety of cognitive learning styles and may thus represent an educational tool that supports teaching to all types. However another central cognitive factor learning approach may have a bearing on student take-up of this learning resource. Student attitudes to pre-prepared concept maps introduced in Stage 2 MPharm and BSc Pharmacology lectures were therefore examined in relation to the principal learning orientations according to Duffs 30-item revised approaches to study inventory RASI. Approximately one half of students 49.6 +/- 4.5% reported pre-prepared concept maps to be useful to their learning n = 121. When preferred learning approach was examined derived from the highest RASI score per individual and excluding ties 31.9 +/- 4.3% 29.3 +/- 4.2% and 38.8 +/- 4.5% of students demonstrated a preference for the deep approach DA strategic approach STA and surface approach SUA respectively P > 0.05 chi2 goodness-of-fit test n = 116. There was a weak but statistically significant association between preferred learning approach identified by Duffs 30-item RASI and the self-reported usefulness of concept maps P < 0.05 chi2 test of independence; Cramers V = 0.235; lambda = 0.193. In contrast gender was not significantly associated with attitude to concept maps in this student cohort. A preliminary analysis of standardised residuals based on observed and expected frequencies revealed that the greatest contributions to this significant association were: a positive influence of DA and a negative influence of STA respectively on attitude to concept maps. These data now indicate a contribution of the principal learning orientations vis--vis student attitudes to pre-prepared concept maps when employed alongside more traditional teaching/learning activities in medical and biomedical science education and may further suggest a role for concept maps in the support of deep learning." Attitudes to concept maps as a teaching/learning activity in undergraduate health professional education: influence of preferred approach to learning.