The brain active patterns were organized differently under resting states of eyes open EO and eyes closed EC. The altered voxel-wise and regional-wise resting state active patterns under EO/EC were found by static analysis. More importantly dynamical spontaneous functional connectivity has been observed in the resting brain. To the best of our knowledge the dynamical mechanisms of intrinsic connectivity networks ICNs under EO/EC remain largely unexplored. The goals of this paper were twofold: 1 investigating the dynamical intra-ICN and inter-ICN temporal patterns during resting state; 2 analyzing the altered dynamical temporal patterns of ICNs under EO/EC. To this end a cohort of healthy subjects with scan conditions of EO/EC were recruited from 1000 Functional Connectomes Project. Through Hilbert transform time-varying phase synchronization PS was applied to evaluate the inter-ICN synchrony. Meanwhile time-varying amplitude was analyzed as dynamical intra-ICN temporal patterns. The results found six micro-states of inter-ICN synchrony. The medial visual network MVN showed decreased intra-ICN amplitude during EC relative to EO. The sensory-motor network SMN and auditory network AN exhibited enhanced intra-ICN amplitude during EC relative to EO. Altered inter-ICN PS was found between certain ICNs. Particularly the SMN and AN exhibited enhanced PS to other ICNs during EC relative to EO. In addition the intra-ICN amplitude might influence the inter-ICN synchrony. Moreover default mode network DMN might play an important role in information processing during EO/EC. Together the dynamical temporal patterns within and between ICNs were altered during different scan conditions of EO/EC. Overall the dynamical intra-ICN and inter-ICN temporal patterns could benefit resting state fMRI-related research and could be potential biomarkers for human functional connectome. Investigating the Temporal Patterns within and between Intrinsic Connectivity Networks under Eyes-Open and Eyes-Closed Resting States: A Dynamical Functional Connectivity Study Based on Phase Synchronization.