Purpose: To assess the performance of full dose FD positron emission tomography PET image synthesis in both image and projection space from low-dose LD PET images/sinograms without sacrificing diagnostic quality using deep learning techniques. Methods: Clinical brain PET/CT studies of 140 patients were retrospectively employed for LD to FD PET conversion. 5% of the events were randomly selected from the FD list-mode PET data to simulate a realistic LD acquisition. A modified 3D U-Net model was implemented to predict FD sinograms in the projection-space PSS and FD images in image-space PIS from their corresponding LD sinograms/images respectively. The quality of the predicted PET images was assessed by two nuclear medicine specialists using a five-point grading scheme. Quantitative analysis using established metrics including the peak signal-to-noise ratio PSNR structural similarity index metric SSIM region-wise standardized uptake value SUV bias as well as first- second- and high-order texture radiomic features in 83 brain regions for the test and evaluation dataset was also performed. Results: All PSS images were scored 4 or higher good to excellent by the nuclear medicine specialists. PSNR and SSIM values of 0.96  0.03 0.97  0.02 and 31.70  0.75 37.30  0.71 were obtained for PIS and PSS respectively. The average SUV bias calculated over all brain regions was 0.24  0.96% and 1.05  1.44% for PSS and PIS respectively. The Bland-Altman plots reported the lowest SUV bias 0.02 and variance 95% CI: -0.92 +0.84 for PSS compared with the reference FD images. The relative error of the homogeneity radiomic feature belonging to the Grey Level Co-occurrence Matrix category was -1.07  1.77 and 0.28  1.4 for PIS and PSS respectively Conclusion: The qualitative assessment and quantitative analysis demonstrated that the FD PET prediction in projection space led to superior performance resulting in higher image quality and lower SUV bias and variance compared to FD PET prediction in the image domain. Projection-space implementation of deep learning-guided low-dose brain PET imaging improves performance over implementation in image-space.