Deep learning based methods have improved the estimation of tissue microstructure from diffusion magnetic resonance imaging\xa0dMRI scans acquired with a reduced number of diffusion gradients. These methods learn the mapping from diffusion signals in a voxel or patch to tissue microstructure measures. In particular it is beneficial to exploit the sparsity of diffusion signals jointly in the spatial and angular domains and the deep network can be designed by unfolding iterative processes that adaptively incorporate historical information for sparse reconstruction. However the number of network parameters is huge in such a network design which could increase the difficulty of network training and limit the estimation performance. In addition existing deep learning based approaches to tissue microstructure estimation do not provide the important information about the uncertainty of estimates. In this work we continue the exploration of tissue microstructure estimation using a deep network and seek to address these limitations. First we explore the sparse representation of diffusion signals with a separable spatial-angular dictionary and design an improved deep network for tissue microstructure estimation. The procedure for updating the sparse code associated with the separable dictionary is derived and unfolded to construct the deep network. Second with the formulation of sparse representation of diffusion signals we propose to quantify the uncertainty of network outputs with a residual bootstrap strategy. Specifically because of the sparsity constraint in the signal representation we perform a Lasso bootstrap strategy for uncertainty quantification. Experiments were performed on brain dMRI scans with a reduced number of diffusion gradients where the proposed method was applied to two representative biophysical models for describing tissue microstructure and compared with state-of-the-art methods of tissue microstructure estimation. The results show that our approach compares favorably with the competing methods in terms of estimation accuracy. In addition the uncertainty measures provided by our method correlate with estimation errors and produce reasonable confidence intervals; these results suggest potential application of the proposed uncertainty quantification method in brain studies. An improved deep network for tissue microstructure estimation with uncertainty quantification.