Background: Phantom limb pain PLP is commonly seen following upper extremity UE amputation. Use of both mirror therapy which utilizes limb reflection in a mirror and virtual reality therapy which utilizes computer limb simulation has been used to relieve PLP. We explored whether the Virtual Integration Environment VIE a virtual reality UE simulator could be used as a therapy device to effectively treat PLP in individuals with UE amputation. Methods: Participants with UE amputation and PLP were recruited at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center WRNMMC and instructed to follow the limb movements of a virtual avatar within the VIE system across a series of study sessions. At the end of each session participants drove virtual avatar limb movements during a period of "free-play" utilizing surface electromyography recordings collected from their residual limbs. PLP and phantom limb sensations were assessed at baseline and following each session using the Visual Analog Scale VAS and Short Form McGill Pain Questionnaire SF-MPQ respectively. In addition both measures were used to assess residual limb pain RLP at baseline and at each study session. In total 14 male active duty military personnel were recruited for the study. Results: Of the 14 individuals recruited to the study nine reported PLP at the time of screening. Eight of these individuals completed the study while one withdrew after three sessions and thus is not included in the final analysis. Five of these eight individuals noted RLP at baseline. Participants completed an average of 18 30-min sessions with the VIE leading to a significant reduction in PLP in seven of the eight 88% affected limbs and a reduction in RLP in four of the five 80% affected limbs. The same user reported an increase in PLP and RLP across sessions. All participants who denied RLP at baseline n = 3 continued to deny RLP at each study session. Conclusions: Success with the VIE system confirms its application as a non-invasive and low-cost therapy option for PLP and phantom limb symptoms for individuals with upper limb loss. Clinical Trial of the Virtual Integration Environment to Treat Phantom Limb Pain With Upper Extremity Amputation.