"In this paper we evaluate the control performance of SSVEP steady-state visual evoked potential- and P300-based models using Cerebot-a mind-controlled humanoid robot platform. Seven subjects with diverse experience participated in experiments concerning the open-loop and closed-loop control of a humanoid robot via brain signals. The visual stimuli of both the SSVEP- and P300- based models were implemented on a LCD computer monitor with a refresh frequency of 60 Hz. Considering the operation safety we set the classification accuracy of a model over 90.0% as the most important mandatory for the telepresence control of the humanoid robot. The open-loop experiments demonstrated that the SSVEP model with at most four stimulus targets achieved the average accurate rate about 90% whereas the P300 model with the six or more stimulus targets under five repetitions per trial was able to achieve the accurate rates over 90.0%. Therefore the four SSVEP stimuli were used to control four types of robot behavior; while the six P300 stimuli were chosen to control six types of robot behavior. Both of the 4-class SSVEP and 6-class P300 models achieved the average success rates of 90.3% and 91.3% the average response times of 3.65 s and 6.6 s and the average information transfer rates ITR of 24.7 bits/min 18.8 bits/min respectively. The closed-loop experiments addressed the telepresence control of the robot; the objective was to cause the robot to walk along a white lane marked in an office environment using live video feedback. Comparative studies reveal that the SSVEP model yielded faster response to the subjects mental activity with less reliance on channel selection whereas the P300 model was found to be suitable for more classifiable targets and required less training. To conclude we discuss the existing SSVEP and P300 models for the control of humanoid robots including the models proposed in this paper." Comparative Study of SSVEP- and P300-Based Models for the Telepresence Control of Humanoid Robots.