Street crossing under traffic is an everyday activity including collision detection as well as avoidance of objects in the path of motion. Such tasks demand extraction and representation of spatio-temporal information about relevant obstacles in an optimized format. Relevant task information is extracted visually by the use of gaze movements and represented in spatial working memory. In a virtual reality traffic intersection task subjects are confronted with a two-lane intersection where cars are appearing with different frequencies corresponding to high and low traffic densities. Under free observation and exploration of the scenery using unrestricted eye and head movements the overall task for the subjects was to predict the potential-of-collision POC of the cars or to adjust an adequate driving speed in order to cross the intersection without collision i.e. to find the free space for crossing. In a series of experiments gaze movement parameters task performance and the representation of car positions within working memory at distinct time points were assessed in normal subjects as well as in neurological patients suffering from homonymous hemianopia. In the following we review the findings of these experiments together with other studies and provide a new perspective of the role of gaze behavior and spatial memory in collision detection and avoidance focusing on the following questions: 1 which sensory variables can be identified supporting adequate collision detection? 2 How do gaze movements and working memory contribute to collision avoidance when multiple moving objects are present and 3 how do they correlate with task performance? 4 How do patients with homonymous visual field defects HVFDs use gaze movements and working memory to compensate for visual field loss? In conclusion we extend the theory of collision detection and avoidance in the case of multiple moving objects and provide a new perspective on the combined operation of external bottom-up and internal top-down cues in a traffic intersection task. Gaze movements and spatial working memory in collision avoidance: a traffic intersection task.