The ability to perform either multineuron or local field/EEG recordings from the nervous system is a critical requirement to develop a new generation of neuroprosthetics that can sense the brains intent for action Nicolelis 2001 2003. This form of sensing neuroprosthesis builds upon the concept of current neuroprosthetic devices which are primarily for macrostimulation of neural elements such as deep brain stimulation DBS; Abosch Hutchison et al. 2002; Rodriguez-Oroz Obeso et al. 2005. A key aspect of this evolving technology is the translation of preclinical multineuron recording and analysis technology into the clinical arena Donoghue 2002; Carmena Lebedev et al. 2003; Mussa-Ivaldi Miller et al. 2003. This translation requires the use of medical-grade components at all levels of electrodes connections and electronics and the stabilization of technology and software for the long process of Food and Drug Administration FDA approval. Human sensing neuroprosthetic devices currently depend upon control signals from residual nerve or muscle activity to restore motor functions lost due to disease or trauma. It has been proposed that these devices could be significantly improved by directly harnessing brain activity from central motor-related regions to drive artificial actuators Chapin 2000; Nicolelis 2001; Caves Shane et al. 2002; Nicolelis Chapin et al. 2002; Chapin and Chapin 2004. Recently laboratory studies involving nonhuman primates have made considerable advances toward the development of such devices. For example neuronal ensemble recordings from motor areas of cerebral cortex in nonhuman primates have been demonstrated to accurately predict three-dimensional arm movements Chapin Moxon et al. 1999; Wessberg Stambaugh et al. 2000; Taylor Tillery et al. 2002; Carmena Lebedev et al. 2003; Nicolelis Dimitrov et al. 2003 and to successfully control a robotic arm neuroprosthetic device. Despite these interesting advances primate studies have yet to address the fundamental question as to whether current brainmachine interface BMI technology and approaches may be successfully applied to human patients in particular those who are nave regarding the eventual tasks Wolpaw Birbaumer et al. 2002; Patil Carmena et al. 2004; Gage Ludwig et al. 2005. Nonhuman primate BMI studies suggest that multineuronal recordings are critical for neuroprosthetic applications and may require a minimum of 50100 recorded neurons to drive a real-time neuroprosthesis Nicolelis 2001 2003; Sanchez Carmena et al. 2004. In addition to cortical motor regions subcortical regions such as the motor thalamus and subthalamic nucleus are also involved in motor planning and execution and could serve as alternative multineuron recording sites Lenz Kwan et al. 1990; Cheruel Dormont et al. 1996; Abosch Hutchison et al. 2002; Guillery Sherman et al. 2002; MacMillan Dostrovsky et al. 2004; Patil Carmena et al. 2004. Devices utilizing control signals from the nervous system have also been developed recently to enhance functional independence using external reflections of brain events rather than direct neuronal recordings such as electroencephalogram EEG direct cortical surface recordings ECoG or evoked potentials Kubler Kotchoubey et al. 1999; Donchin Spencer et al. 2000; Pfurtscheller Guger et al. 2000; Birch Bozorgzadeh et al. 2002; Wolpaw Birbaumer et al. 2002; Scherberger Jarvis et al. 2005. These external signals suffer considerable information loss because the control signal is derived from thousands or millions of neurons averaged across time and space. For example scalp EEG signals can enable the control of approximately 67 characters per minute on an optimized keyboard for a short period but this is very limited for most purposes Wolpaw Birbaumer et al. 2002. Although a large variety of devices and approaches to neuroprosthetics are currently available there is not at present a robust control signal that can be derived directly from the brain using noninvasive methods and that leads to fast reliable conversion of thoughts into actions Nicolelis 2001 2003. This challenge leads to two problems. The first is that a high-throughput reliable control signal is needed to directly link the brain with external devices for translation of thought into action Figure 12.1. The second is the inherent understanding of what packets of action potentials mean to the brain and how sensorimotor information is concurrently processed by multiple subcortical and cortical structures that define a neural circuit. This challenge is thus posed from two different anglesthe clinical treatment domain of using a control signal regardless of its meaning if it works to actuate an external event and the research domain of interpreting information generated by networks of neurons involved in coding ultimately leading to a better understanding of brain function. For both of these challenging goals the concept and practical achievement of neural ensemble recordings are critical; the various types of available and envisioned devices will be discussed in detail. Conceptual and Technical Approaches to Human Neural Ensemble Recordings.