Tropospheric delay is an important error source in global positioning systems GPS and the water vapor retrieved from the tropospheric delay is widely used in meteorological research such as climate analysis and weather forecasting. Most zenith tropospheric delay ZTD models are presently used as positioning corrections and few models are used for the estimation of water vapor especially in Antarctica. Through two blind source separation algorithms principal component analysis PCA and independent component analysis ICA a back-propagation BP neural network and a deep learning technique long short-term memory LSTM network we establish an hourly high-accuracy ZTD model for GPS meteorology using the GPS-ZTD from 52 GPS stations in West Antarctica. Our results show that under the condition in which the principal components PCs and independent components ICs remain fixed after decomposition the mean accuracy of the models for West Antarctica using PCA or ICA are better than 10 mm. Compared with the ZTDs from the nonmodeling stations the mean root mean square RMS of the PCA and ICA models are 9.3 and 8.9 mm respectively and the correlation coefficients between the GPS-ZTD and model-ZTDs all exceed 90%. The accuracy of the ICA model is slightly higher than that of the PCA model and the ICs of the ICA model show more consistent spatial responses. The six-hour forecast is the best among the forecast results with a mean correlation coefficient of 90.6% and a mean RMS of 7.2 mm using GPS-ZTD. The long-term forecast result is significantly inaccurate as the correlation coefficient between the 24-h forecast and GPS-ZTD is only 63.2%. Generally modest results have been achieved HSS  0.38. Furthermore the forecast accuracy in coastal areas is lower than that in inland areas. Our study confirms that the combined use of ICA and deep learning in ZTD modeling can effectively restore the original signals and short-term forecasting can be effectively used in GPS meteorology. However further development of the technology is necessary. Modeling and Forecasting the GPS Zenith Troposphere Delay in West Antarctica Based on Different Blind Source Separation Methods and Deep Learning.