covid-19 inpatients with psychiatric disorders: real-world clinical recommendations from an expert team in consultation-liaison psychiatry. © 2020 Elsevier B.V.Background: : The management of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) in patients with comorbid psychiatric disorders poses several challenges, especially regarding drug interactions. Methods: : We report three representative case-scenarios on patients with psychiatric disorders and COVID-19 to provide a practical approach based on the existing literature and the clinical experience of an expert team in consultation-liaison psychiatry. Case-centered recommendations: : Psychopharmacological ongoing treatments should be prioritized and most doses should be reduced 25–50% of original dose if the patient receives lopinavir/ritonavir, with some exceptions including quetiapine, asenapine, olanzapine, sertraline, lamotrigine, bupropion, and methadone. If the psychopharmacological usual doses are in the low-to-median range levels, a dose change during COVID-19 drugs co-administration is not recommended, but only ECG and clinical monitoring of adverse effects and drug levels if required. Furthermore, when introducing a psychopharmacological drug, dose titration should be progressive, with ECG monitoring if cardiotoxic interactions are present. (A) In agitated delirium, olanzapine is recommended as first-line antipsychotic and quetiapine should be avoided. (B) In severe mental illness (SMI), essential treatments should be maintained. (C) In non-SMI with depressive/anxiety symptoms, psychological support should be provided and symptoms identified and treated. Limitations: : Most recommendations on pharmacological interactions provide only a limited qualitative approach and quantitative recommendations are lacking. Conclusions: : Patients with psychiatric disorders and COVID-19 should be managed on a personalized basis considering several clinical criteria and, should not be excluded from receiving COVID-19 treatments. Risks of pharmacological interaction are not absolute and should be contextualized, and most psychopharmacological treatments should include an ECG with special attention to QTc interval.