coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) imaging reporting and data system (covid-rads) and common lexicon: a proposal based on the imaging data of 37 studies. © 2020, European Society of Radiology.Background: In the vast majority of the laboratory-confirmed coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) patients, computed tomography (CT) examinations yield a typical pattern and the sensitivity of this modality has been reported to be 97% in a large-scale study. Structured reporting systems simplify the interpretation and reporting of imaging examinations, serve as a framework for consistent generation of recommendations, and improve the quality of patient care. Purpose: To compose a comprehensive lexicon for description of the imaging findings and propose a grading system and structured reporting format for CT findings in COVID-19. Material and methods: We updated our published systematic review on imaging findings in COVID-19 to include 37 published studies pertaining to diagnostic features of COVID-19 in chest CT. Using the reported imaging findings of 3647 patients, we summarized the typical chest CT findings, atypical features, and temporal changes of COVID-19 in chest CT. Subsequently, we extracted a list of descriptive terms and mapped it to the terminology that is commonly used in imaging literature. Results: We composed a comprehensive lexicon that can be used for documentation and reporting of typical and atypical CT imaging findings in COVID-19 patients. Using the same data, we propose a grading system with five COVID-RADS categories. Each COVID-RADS grade corresponds to a low, moderate, or high level of suspicion for pulmonary involvement of COVID-19. Conclusion: The proposed COVID-RADS and common lexicon would improve the communication of findings to other healthcare providers, thus facilitating the diagnosis and management of COVID-19 patients. Key Points: • Chest CT has high sensitivity in diagnosing the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). • Structured reporting systems simplify the interpretation and reporting of imaging examinations, serve as a framework for consistent generation of recommendations, and improve the quality of patient care. • The proposed COVID-RADS and common lexicon would improve the communication of findings to other healthcare providers, thus facilitating the diagnosis and management of COVID-19 patients.