glycerol monolaurate, an analogue to a factor secreted by lactobacillus, is virucidal against enveloped viruses, including hiv-1. © 2020 Welch et al.The vaginal microbiota influences sexual transmission of human immu-nodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1). Colonization of the vaginal tract is normally domi-nated by Lactobacillus species. Both Lactobacillus and Enterococcus faecalis may se-crete reutericyclin, which inhibits the growth of a variety of pathogenic bacteria. Increasing evidence suggests a potential therapeutic role for an analogue of reuteri-cyclin, glycerol monolaurate (GML), against microbial pathogens. Previous studies us-ing a macaque vaginal simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) transmission model demonstrated that GML reduces transmission and alters immune responses to infection in vitro. Previous studies showed that structural analogues of GML negatively impact other enveloped viruses. We sought to expand understanding of how GML inhibits HIV-1 and other enveloped viruses and show that GML restricts HIV-1 entry post-CD4 engagement at the step of coreceptor binding. Further, HIV-1 and yellow fever virus (YFV) particles were more sensitive to GML interfer-ence than particles “matured” by proteolytic processing. We show that high-pressure-liquid-chromatography (HPLC)-purified reutericyclin and reutericyclin secreted by Lactobacillus inhibit HIV-1. These data emphasize the importance and protective nature of the normal vaginal flora during viral infections and provide in-sights into the antiviral mechanism of GML during HIV-1 infection and, more broadly, to other enveloped viruses. IMPORTANCE A total of 340 million sexually transmitted infections (STIs) are acquired each year. Antimicrobial agents that target multiple infectious pathogens are ideal candidates to reduce the number of newly acquired STIs. The antimicrobial and immunoregulatory properties of GML make it an excellent candidate to fit this critical need. Previous studies established the safety profile and antibacterial activity of GML against both Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria. GML protected against high-dose SIV infection and reduced inflammation, which can exacerbate disease, during infection. We found that GML inhibits HIV-1 and other human-pathogenic viruses (yellow fever virus, mumps virus, and Zika virus), broadening its antimicrobial range. Because GML targets diverse infectious pathogens, GML may be an effective agent against the broad range of sexually transmitted pathogens. Fur-ther, our data show that reutericyclin, a GML analog expressed by some lactobacillus species, also inhibits HIV-1 replication and thus may contribute to the protective effect of Lactobacillus in HIV-1 transmission.