jail incarceration, social sanitary confinement and ways of escape enfermement carcéral, confinement socio-sanitaire et moyens d’évasion. danser sa peine et au-delà…. © 2020Jail incarceration and social confinement due to a sanitary stay-at-home law against the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic are compared to the introduction of dance workshops for imprisoned women charged with long sentences, then followed by an outside performance Soul Kitchen. The whole experience, organized by a famous contemporary choreographer Angelin Preljocaj, is filmed by Valérie Müller, producing Danser sa peine (To dance her sentence/her sorrow), nominated for an award. The sessions are planned: two hours and a half, 2 times a week, for four months, no technique required. A group of five women start with ordinary easy functional movements, gaining in innovative and expressive qualities, spatial perceptions, feelings and interpersonal interactions, lead by A. Preljocaj in a helpful and empathic mood. At the same time, he discovers the cooking authorization in their jail cell. The relevant results shift into a dynamic successful piece Soul Kitchen (2019) performed in town (Dance Festival in Montpellier, south of France) with dancing and cooking occurrences on stage. It makes sense, specially about self-esteem, body image and positive opinion from the audience. The women's physical and psychological states linked with a long lack of space and sensitivity… move to a better self-balance and feelings of well-being. In a similar state of mind, the French confined population – youth to elderly – try to find different and imaginative strategies at home as moving in a restrictive area, enjoying family cooking… through trainings provided by Internet, looking for reducing anxiety, depressive disorders and other social problems. A panel of situations goes from deleterious conflictual relationships, dramatic isolation, to funny and positive ones using creativeness to escape, facing the disruption of daily life.