understanding the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (sars-cov-2) and coronavirus disease (covid-19) based on available evidence - a narrative review. © 2020 Baqiyatallah University of Medical Sciences. All rights reserved.Since December 2019, a new coronavirus, called the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARSCoV- 2), triggers pneumonia outbreak from Wuhan (Huanan seafood market) across China, which now poses major health threats to public health. The Coronavirus Disease-2019 (COVID-19) epidemic by SARS-CoV-2 is spreading worldwide, and by March 1, 2020, 67 countries, including Iran, have been affected. According to worldwide statistics, the mortality rate is 3.4%. Early symptoms of COVID-19 include pneumonia, fever, myalgia and fatigue. To date, no successful vaccine or antiviral agents has been clinically approved for COVID-19. Therefore, prevention and control of infection is a top priority for the general public. Extensive research into the SARS-CoV-2 is needed to fully elucidate its pathway and pathogenic mechanisms, and to identify potential therapeutic targets, which can be effective in developing common preventive and therapeutic measures. In this narrative review, based on evidences published until March 1, 2020, the epidemic and etiologic features of the SARS-CoV-2, its essential biological features, including its receptors and route of transmission, outline disease prevention and treatment approaches is provided. Given the origin of the Covid-19, it seems that the nutritional and health recommendations of Islam, especially Halal food and health observance, need to be addressed more throughout the world. Lack of inducing stress and anxiety among the people, besides advising and training people to abide by all the principles of health, is so important to fight against the disease. It is hoped that Covid-19 prevention, control and treatment will be achieved through vaccine and antiviral agents' production as well as health care measures in the near future.