digital divides in posting covid-19 content on social media among u.s. adults: opportunities to understand the experiences of racial and ethnic minorities. BACKGROUND: Public health surveillance experts are leveraging user generated content on social media to track the spread and effects of COVID-19, but the racial and ethnic digital divide - disparities in who has Internet access and posts on social media - can bias inferences. This is particularly problematic in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic because structural inequalities have resulted in racial and ethnic minorities experiencing disproportionate vulnerability to contracting the virus and the deleterious economic and social effects from mitigation efforts. Further, important demographic intersections with race and ethnicity - gender and age - are rarely investigated in work characterizing social media users, yet they reflect additional axes of inequality shaping differential exposure to COVID-19 and its effects. OBJECTIVE: To characterize how the race and ethnicity of U.S. adults are associated with their odds of posting COVID-19 content on social media, and how gender and age modify these odds. METHODS: A secondary analysis of a survey conducted by the Pew Research Center in March 19-24, 2020 using a national, probability sample (N = 10,510). Respondents were recruited from an online panel, where panelists without an Internet-enabled device were given one at no cost. The binary dependent variable was responses to an item asking whether respondents "used social media to share or post information about the coronavirus." We used survey-weighted logistic regressions to estimate the odds of responding in the affirmative based on the race and ethnicity of respondents (White, Black, Latino, other race/ethnicity), adjusted for covariates measuring sociodemographic background and COVID-19 experiences. We examined how gender (female, male) and age (18-30, 31-50, 51-64, 65+) intersected with race and ethnicity by estimating interactions. RESULTS: Blacks (odds ratio [OR] 1.3, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1-1.6; P = .03), Latinos (OR 1.7, 95% CI 1.4-2; P <.001), and members other races/ethnicities (OR 1.3, 95% CI 1-1.7; P = .03) had higher odds than Whites of reporting they posted COVID-19 content on social media. Women had higher odds of posting than men regardless of race and ethnicity (OR 1.6, 95% CI 1.4-1.8; P < .001). Among men, Blacks, Latinos, and members other races/ethnicities were significantly more likely than Whites to post. Older adults (65 or older) had significantly lower odds (OR 0.7, 95% CI 0.6-0.9; P = .01) of posting compared to younger adults (18-29), particularly among those identifying as other races/ethnicities. Latinos are most likely to report posting across all age groups. CONCLUSIONS: In the U.S., racial and ethnic minorities are most likely to contribute to COVID-19 content in social media data, particularly among groups traditionally less likely to use social media (older adults, men). The next step is to ensure data collection procedures capture this diversity by encompassing a breadth of search criteria and social media platforms.