impact of covid-19 on surgical residency programs in pakistan; a residents' perspective. do programs need formal restructuring to adjust with the “new normal”? a cross-sectional survey study. © 2020 IJS Publishing Group LtdBackground: Due to high-risk exposure of surgical residents to coronavirus, surgical residency programs have changed their training methods and working hours drastically. The purpose of this study is to find out the positive and negative impacts of the pandemic on surgical residency programs and on the lives of surgical residents. Materials and methods: A cross-sectional study was conducted on 112 surgical residents of a tertiary care hospital in Pakistan, with a mean age of 30.5 years from all the departments of surgery using a self-made, validated 40-point questionnaire comprising three sections. The last section also included modified Maslach Burnout inventory. Results: Of all the residents, 97 (86.6%) stated that their surgical hands-on duration is adversely affected by the pandemic. As for clinical exposure, 92 (82.1%) trainees responded that their clinical exposure is affected too. Among all the subjects, 69 (61%) were concerned about transmitting it to their family members and 43 (38.4%) affirmed on being afraid of dying because of their direct exposure. On the brighter side, the average number of working hours per week for surgical residents were reduced from 81.10 ± 6.21 to 49.16 ± 6.25 (p < 0.001) due to the outbreak. Modified Maslach Burnout inventory score was 8.33 ± 2.34 after the outbreak, showing statistically significant reduction in burnout among the surgical residents (p < 0.001). Conclusion: The changes in the surgical residency programs amidst the pandemic has reduced the working hours, hands-on and clinical exposure of the surgical residents. Moreover, the situation has provided an opportunity to explore efficient methods of learning that can lead to lesser burnout. However, psychological burdens of surgical residents like fear of acquiring the infection should be appropriately addressed.