covid-19: a review. © Copyright: the Author(s), 2020The enduring epidemic outbreak which started in Wuhan city of China, in December 2019 caused by the 2019 novel coronavirus (COVID- 19) or the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), has created a dangerous and deadly Public Health disaster of International apprehension, with cases confirmed in several countries. This novel community health trouble is frightening the universe with clinical, psychological, emotional, collapse of health system and economical slowdown in each and every part of the world infecting nearly 200 countries. A highly virulent and pathogenic COVID-19 viral infection with incubation period ranging from two to fourteen days, transmitted by breathing of infected droplets or contact with infected droplets, belongs to the genus Coronavirus with its high mutation rate in the Coronaviridae. The likely probable primary reservoir could be bats, because genomic analysis discovered that SARSCoV-2 is phylogenetically interrelated to SARS-like bat viruses. The transitional resource of origin and transfer to humans is not known, however, the rapidly developing pandemic has cone firmed human to human transfer. Approximately 1,016,128 reported cases, 211,615 recovered cases and 53,069 deaths of COVID-2019 have been reported to date (April 2, 2020). The symptoms vary from asymptomatic, low grade pyrexia, dry cough, sore throat, breathlessness, tiredness, body aches, fatigue, myalgia, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, to severe consolidation and pneumonia, acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) and multiple organ dysfunction leading to death with case fatality rate ranging from 2 to 3%. The most common diagnostic methods are molecular methods as RT-PCR (reverse transcription) or real-time PCR, which are prepared by means of RNA from respiratory samples such as oropharyngeal swabs, sputum, nasopharyngeal aspirate, deep tracheal aspirate, or bronchoalveolar lavage. Treatment is essentially supportive; as there is no documented clinically established and accepted antiviral remedy or vaccine existing, but some wide-ranging antiviral, anti-malarial and anti-parasitic drugs have been evaluated to be used in COVID-19. Prevention includes home segregation and quarantine of suspected cases or those with mild illnesses and stringent infection control measures should be taken at hospitals to contain contact and droplet infections. International health authorities are focusing on rapid diagnosis of cases, tracing of contacts, isolation of patients and searching for antiviral therapies to counter the deadliest COVID-19 disease.